# Big Five Personality Traits and Web Usage

John Pezzuto

##Introduction

In psychology, there is a well established five factor model that is said to predict a person’s personality. The five factor model, also called the Big Five Personality Traits, measures people on five spectrums. These spectrums are openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. Previous literature has already associated the Big Five Personality traits with other ideals such as political attitudes and job performance. Similarly, one would expect people at opposite ends of these spectrums to use the Internet in different ways. For example, I would expect someone who ranks in the higher percentiles of extraversion to use social media websites more often than someone at the lower percentiles of extraversion, or that someone who is ranked lower in agreeableness to use a narrower selection of websites. With this is in mind, I propose to use an enriched asking survey model, where participants are surveyed on their Big Five Personality Traits and subsequently this data would be linked with web-use activity in order to see the correlation between personality traits and web usage.

####Research Question

How does personality correlate with Internet use? 

## Research Design 

The inquiry proposed in this study is fairly similar to that of one proposed by an observational study, but is set apart by the survey of big five personality traits. The reason the survey is an important aspect of this study is because if we did not use it, it would only be possible to speculate on big five personality traits. Alternatively, if there was a database filled with big five personality results, it would be possible to join this database with a new database about web usage. However, because this is a first study of this type to be performed, it is not likely such a database with overlapping participants exists. The survey is an important aspect of this study, because it is what makes this analysis possible in a way that observational data could not do alone.

The obvious challenges of this sort of study comes along with getting participants to consent to sharing their web history. The current databases tracking Internet history are not easily accessible for researchers, but do indeed exist. For example, internet service providers have records of websites that customers visit. Similarly, the NSA surveillance programs also have records of which websites Americans visit, because of their efforts to prevent terrorism. Neither of these two options are likely to be interested in working with researchers so these likely are not eligible options. Fortunately, there are many people who voluntarily offer their web history either to learn something about themselves or in the hopes of being more productive. Consider companies like RescueTime which monitor web browsing history to volunteering customers, and then report back with weekly emails letting participants know how they spent their time online. This could be an option for a data source. RescueTime may have a complete data set, but unless their employees were interested in collaborating, they are likely to be closed off to outsiders as well.
The most realistic option may come from working directly with a university. Most universities require a web login before accessing the Internet on campus, which would make tracking Internet usage very easy. This would allow for a pretty good idea of how most students use the Internet – particularly students who live in the dorm and therefore almost always are connected to a school account. It is true these sort of services may naturally attract a biased sample of younger, more technology orientated crowd, but similar to Wang et al.’s (2015) study of predicting elections based on a biased sample of Xbox gamers, it may be possible to overcome this biased sample of users of participants willing to offer Internet browsing history as well. *In order to get access to web browsing data, it would be important to first receive permission from the IT department at the university.* I could then work together with them to make sure we have a reliable way to anonymize the data we collect.

With a source for Internet browsing set in place, it would then be very important to get consent from people who are participating in the study. *Every student participating should be individually briefed about the dangers of participating in the study by a research professional and only then be able to participate in the study, if they so desire.* The big five traits would then by compared to categories of Internet websites. These website categories include but is not limited to email, social media, reference & learning, news, etc. The websites will be categorized via a machine learning algorithm designed by the research team working on this project.

## Justification for the Experiment

Understand the relationship between web usage and the Big Five Personality Factors is both revealing about the human psych and feasible to do. The research has implications for Internet advertisers who may be interested in knowing their customers better or perhaps even people interested in knowing themselves better. Corporations and other organizations who seek additional insight into the consumer psyche would be able to use this information to fine tune powerful targeted messages. Participants in the study might discover that their choice of Internet websites are reflective of positive and negative aspects of their personalities that they may want to expand or minimize.  The relationship between Big Five Personality Factors and Internet use also sheds light on the human condition in new ways that have never been done before. The proposed method is relatively inexpensive to run. 


##Strengths and Weaknesses

There are several reasons why this experiment works best as a digitally enhanced survey. The first one of these reasons is that it is hard for people to answer truthfully about their web usage in hindsight. Personally speaking, I know that I like to browse the web everyday for some amount of time, but it’s hard for me to explicitly state how often I do this and and for what amount of time. Having data tracked by computers is much more accurate than self recollection, and allows for researchers to see a much more nuanced view of how people spend their time online. Similarly, the always-on aspect of big data is helpful for this experiment. If someone wakes up at 4am, and spends an hour online before going back to sleep, this may elude their mind while filling out a paper survey at another time.

As I stated before, besides the difficulty in achieving access to data, there are various other challenges included with this project. The first of such is categorizing websites. Modern websites are becoming more and more difficult to categorize simply. Consider Reddit which can act as a news source, a how to website, a blog, and a social media platform. Current categories may simply distinguish Reddit as a social media platform, but the reality is may be slightly muddier than a simple category can offer, but regardless general website categorization is still possible and may be advantageous for this kind of proposed study.

Another potential source for error is students who go off campus, or people who use another source of Internet like their mobile LTE plan. It is likely that most samples from participants will be incomplete in some way. This is a natural part of doing such a big research study, but generally, this incompleteness should not throw off results terribly in aggregate. As far as I know the missing data from these scenarios cannot be prevented. Another possibility is that people will share their devices with friends and coworkers.  As previously stated, this is to be expected in such a large ranging thorough study, and should not throw off the results when considered in aggregate. This is another issue that cannot be prevented. This kind of error is difficult to minimize in most cases without taking measures like downloading software on multiple computers and phones. Although this is possible in theory, I think the reality of having the students download software in aggregate is difficult to achieve in practice, and the previously stated potential error scenarios are near impossible to otherwise prevent.




