HW6\_Ethics
================
Nora Nickels
11/20/2017

Assignment 6
============

Perspectives of Computational Analysis - Fall 2017
--------------------------------------------------

Ethics
======

1 - To start the evaluation of this study using Salganik’s four principles of ethical research, I begin with the principle of respect for persons. To fulfill this principle, the Montana election experiment must treat individuals as autonomous, with additional protections provided to those with diminished autonomy, and must not subject individuals to an experimental manipulation without their consent. In my opinion, this study does not obtain consent from individuals who were sent mailers and who read said mailers without awareness of the potential ramifications. Although one might argue that individuals are not forcibly, individually swayed in terms of their voting behavior based on becoming a recipient of these mailers, and that no vulnerable populations were made susceptible, I believe that receiving the mailers without awareness of their purpose or without agreeing to any sort of “terms of service”, if you will, is a form of deception, without consent, debriefing, or the opportunity to opt out.

In terms of the principle of beneficence, the focus is on potential harm as opposed to lack of gathered consent. If we ask if the Montana election experiment maximized possible benefits and minimized possible harms, I focus on the benefits of this study; the experimenters have a unique opportunity to find a potential solution for improving voting behavior, which I believe is a significant benefit. The only harm in my mind is the anger or backlash that occurred, which the open letter refers to as “ … disconcerting and disruptive to many Montanans.” Further harm lies in the potential for candidates to have both opinions and potential voting behavior changed or manipulated, but that is technically irrelevant towards the subjects of the experiment. In my opinion, benefits are maximized and the harms are minimized, in the context of how the experiment is performed.

Third principle is that of justice; are the burdens and benefits distributed, and are those vulnerable protected? Without information on whom the mailers were sent to, it’s difficult to make the call on the distribution of the burden and benefits. So long as the mailers were sent randomly, then the mailers would have both benefitted and spread risk in a technically “just” way. There is a line, however, from the Mercury News article that stands out to me in this context, where the former California Fair Political Practices Chairman states, “… They would’ve never dreamed about sending out this mailer to voters in Palo Alto or Woodside or Atherton … but they assumed these were dumb Montanans who wouldn’t know any better.” If one wants to base an argument of lack of justice on the potential condescension of sending it to a geographic population of less intelligence, that would be another story.

Finally, in terms of respect for law and public interest, compliance with the law is potentially broken, with the Commissioner of Political Practices of the State of Montana’s argument that the researchers violated Montana state law. I do believe that their argument, in addition to the fact that the research proposal was not submitted to Stanford’s IRB, are violations of the law and policy that is in place to protect public interest. Regardless of outcome, by avoiding the IRB and potentially violating Montana state law, I do believe that this fourth principle, in addition to the first, are the two that are most susceptible to ethical violation with this experiment.

2 - Even if the mailers were sent to a purely random sample of voters, to assess how the outcome of the election could have been potentially altered would require the researchers to find out if different groups of individuals would react to the mailers different. For example, if low-income voters were more willing to be affected by the mailers, and low-income voters are more likely to be democratic voters, then the outcome of the election could potentially have been altered.

3 - This does not necessarily change my assessment of the research design. In terms of the four principles of ethics discussed above, the lack of consent and respect for persons is unchanged. In terms of respect for the law and public interest, potentially violating Montana state law and the public interest, particularly in the potential to affect the outcome of the election, is also certainly still an issue. It seems like a fairly shallow justification, one that believes that the mailers will affect a random sampling somewhat equally in terms of voter turnout, which is why they over-distributed to a group that is less likely to vote overall. However, if the argument above stands, and different groups of individuals respond differently to the mailers, this difference in distribution does not necessarily alleviate the situation in terms of the potential to affect the outcome of the election.

4 - I guess you could say that this rational by the researchers makes me *feel* slightly better, but it does not necessarily change my assessment of the research design. To me, this type of argument is something that should be presented to the IRB, which as far as we know was fully avoided by the researchers with Stanford and partially avoided with Dartmouth. What good is taking this type of strategy when 1) deception of some sort is still used in the sense that participants did not give any sort of consent; 2) legality is still potentially violated; and 3) no review board was presented with this strategy and therefore no review board could assess the study in advance, based on the researchers arguments and rational behind choosing the election that they chose.

5/6 - Even though a not close election result also makes me feel better, it does not change my assessment of the research design. To me that is like the equivalent if a mother says, “You could have poked your eye out”, and the child respond, “But I *didn’t* poke my eye out!” - the potential risk not occurring does not make the follow-through of the action okay. A post-hoc proof of the successful avoidance of ethical issues is not a good enough argument to ignore the ethical principles that are potentially violated. Even though the outcome of the election was not close, subjects who received the mailers are still affected in the sense that their consent was not completed, and legality is still potentially violated. If public interest is not violated in the sense that the actual election was not affected, that may be true, but a post-hoc argument like this does not make the ethics of the experiment a non-issue to me.

7 - My first reaction to this piece of information is that when I read the letter that was sent out to recipients, and it clarified that the mailer’s rankings “relied upon public information about who had donated to each of the campaigns”, this feels different than disclosing that the mailer’s ranking could have potentially relied upon (thought not confirmed) objective scores that are created by a for-profit company that is co-founded by one of the principle investigators of the study. Second, if this for-profit company seeks to provide tools to organize and fund political communities or campaigns, there is a potentially financial motivation lying behind this study that makes me even more concerned about the study not being submitted to the IRB and also for the researchers potentially breaking Montana campaign practice laws. Both of these issues are main topics in the complaint filed against Stanford and Dartmouth, and I can only see this connection of Bonica to CrowdPAC as something that would aid in the legal complaint. Bonica’s name was familiar to me, and I realized that we did read his article on mapping the ideological marketplace, and that he also provided data on campaign contributors for the article that discussed the long-term effects of 9/11 on political behavior. His strong involvement with candidate ideology makes me decently concerned in terms of the lack of effort in involvement with the IRB and lack of clarification of how these mailers may have affected potential voters of varying ideologies in a different way (concern going back to \#2).

8 - My first instinct in terms of how I would have designed the study differently has to do with a research study we read previously this term. The Nature paper we read, “A 61-million-person experiment in social influence and political mobilization”, used an experimental manipulation that could have affected real-world voting behavior. When we discussed the ethics of this experiment in class, we touched upon the fact that participants had agreed to Facebook Terms of Use, which technically counted as informed consent, and that more overall votes did not necessarily affect specific candidates, and the information provided was not tied to specific candidates but tied to voting behavior other people on Facebook. Although the point of the current study is to see how people who were provided with more information (particularly about the candidates) would affect voting behavior, perhaps holding this type of experiment on a *digital* platform where you can gain consent in terms of Terms of Service makes sense in order to follow a more ethical platform for respect for persons.

Other strategies I would have done differently as a principle investigator would include absolutely going through the university IRB. Further, I would use a debriefing process, which would inform voters of what was going on. I am not sure if the current principle investigators were planning on using such a strategy, as shortly after the mailers were sent, the open letter was sent to all recipients.
