## Evaluating research designs

#### By Cooper Nederhood

### Digital Discrimination: The Case of AirBnB

The authors of the paper "Digital Discrimination: The Case of AirBnB.com" test for the presence of racial discrimination in online marketplaces. Specifically, they focus on racial discrimination against landlords in the online rental marketplace AirBnB. AirBnB has grown rapidly since its founding in 2008 and is now used around the globe. Because individuals performing an online transaction are physically separated and have access only to directly relevant information and not to demographic information, online marketplaces have the potential to decrease market discrimination. However, AirBnB, in an effort to foster trust between landlords and renters, encourages the development of public profiles which include pictures and first names which creates an avenue for discrimination. To analyze the complex marketplace dynamics, the authors leverage computational methods by combining rich platform data from AirBnB with mass-collaboration data through Amazon MTurk. 

Because the authors develop a novel dataset that is previously not analyzed their relatively traditional observational analysis yields strong insights. They gather the listing price for each AirBnB listing in New York City as of July 17, 2012. They also gather data on the host and the apartment. This includes past guest review count, average host rating, location ratings on five distinct criteria, and the size of the apartment with respect to the number accommodated and whether the entire apartment is available. A critical step in connecting the research target of race with the AirBnB dynamics, the authors supplement the observational data with mass-collaboration data via Amazon MTurk workers. Workers rate the quality of each apartment and categorize the race of the landlord. The authors use distinct MTurk workers for both tasks, circumventing distortions from any overlap. The authors then operationalize the research construct by testing whether black hosts, after controlling for all other observables, have a lower listing price than non-black hosts. 

Ultimately, an observational study shows evidence that some sort of relationship exists in the available data. To show that a relationship exists between race (ie. Black and non-black) and rental price the authors show first show that the simple mean rental price between the two groups is statistically and economically significant. To expand upon this potentially naïve finding, the authors present visually and with a corresponding statistical test a comparison of the distribution of the two groups. Finally, the authors present their main statistical test in the form of regression analysis controlling for all possible observables. All findings appear robust and mutually enforcing that there exists a race penalty for black landlords. By presenting the tests in increasing level of statistical sophistication the authors convince the reader without the appearance that they are obfuscating results with advanced statistical methods. The power to convince but keep the analysis simple stems from their novel data. 

The authors show that as of July 17, 2012 black AirBnB landlords in New York City are asking for lower rental prices, all else equal. The limitation in the research, which is characteristic of observational studies, is the extent to which we can generalize this to AirBnB and online marketplaces more broadly. The authors use their findings to make statements about AirBnB's marketplace design. However, they also state that "AirBnB has facilitated over two million room rentals" and has "300,000 listings" word-wide yet their conclusions are based on a single snapshot in 2012 from one American metropolis. They have 3,752 observations of which 7% are black for roughly 262 black listings. Perhaps renters in huge cities have more choices and thus can choose to discriminate, in which case the discrimination in NYC could be higher than in less populated areas. Conversely, perhaps renters in diverse areas like NYC are less racially biased, in which case we would expect a greater racial penalty elsewhere. Both the rental market and racial dynamics are incredibly reflective of the specific region and I am hesitant to conclude that the relationship identified in New York City is emblematic of a world-wide platform.  

While observational studies can identify a relationship, they struggle to conclude as to the causal mechanism behind that relationship. The authors control for as many observables as could possibly be visible to the renter but the prices are those offered by the landlord who has perfect information regarding the property. Perhaps the discrepancy reflects additional knowledge regarding quality that is only known by the landlord. Because both the AirBnB platform and the "Sharing Economy" notion are relatively new perhaps the early adapters were well-educated, rich, urban whites and less economically advantaged minorities were slower to join. The race penalty then could reflect an experience measure. Finally, we are using a snapshot of data rather than longitudinal data. Because AirBnB is a platform there will be drift as usage changes and this study cannot detect this. Overall, the study does a very good job of showing that a racial penalty exists in New York City but there are problems with concluding as to the origins and whether this is reflective of all AirBnB markets. However, it certainly provokes questions for further analysis. 


### Racial Discrimination in the Sharing Economy: Evidence from a Field Experiment

The authors of "Racial Discrimination in the Sharing Economy: Evidence from a Field Experiment" use a digitally enhanced experimental design to analyze racial discrimination in the online rental market, specifically on the AirBnB platform. In their field experiment, they use fake AirBnB renter accounts to query 6,400 AirBnB listings across 5 cities in the United States for potential availability. The twenty fake renter accounts have no profile picture and are identical in all regards other than name. Each name is distinctly representative of some male/female gender and black/white race combination. The authors categorize the response types from landlords and analyze differences across the four types of renters, showing there exists a persistent discrimination against black rental applicants. 
The authors leverage the AirBnB platform to perform an experiment at a much larger scale than would be feasible in a traditional analogue experiment. The algorithm to query a landlord has an extremely low marginal cost allowing for a large sample size across multiple AirBnB rental markets. In fact, the authors planned for many more observations across even more cities but were effectively shut down by AirBnB when their algorithm was detected. While the experiment was still able to achieve its results, this highlights a unique complexity of implementing an online experiment on a platform without the consent of the platform manager. In this case, it would be difficult to get cooperation from AirBnB because the conclusions are damaging to AirBnB's public perception. 

The authors took various steps to ensure that their experimental design had internal validity. For example, they queried each host in a given city but if the host had more than one availability, they randomly chose a single location to test. Further, no landlord operated across cities so no one was contacted more than once. If subjects were repeatedly contacted they could become aware of the experiment and modify their behavior. Usage of an online platform changes over time so to avoid this confounding drift all queries in a given city were made within a short time period. When implementing Amazon MTurk workers for classification tasks they had multiple workers review each observation and used a third worker to resolve any discrepancy. To confirm that the names were indeed racially and gender distinctive they had individuals classify each name. Finally, when employing a facial recognition algorithm to classify past guests' race they used MTurk workers to verify instances in which the recognition algorithm had confidence issues. The authors went great lengths to ensure the design was internally valid, an important first step before addressing its external validity. 

To apply their experimental results to the broader online marketplace the authors need to establish external validity. By performing the experiment on five US cities of varying size, geography, and AirBnB usage we can begin to generalize their results beyond the subject landlords. As will be discussed later, by joining their experimental results with rich AirBnB and census data they can make additional more fine-grained observations. Their findings are incredibly robust to this additional information, again suggesting their results are externally valid. Finally, the authors perform a pseudo out-of-sample validation procedure by testing whether the discrimination gap disappears when selecting those landlords with a history of black renters. This turns out to be the case. In other words, landlords that seem to discriminate in the experiment also do not historically have black tenants, suggesting that experimental behavior is consistent with historical behavior.  

The initial experimental results strongly suggest that the probability of a "yes" response is lower for black renters. Because of the large sample size possible in a digital experiment and because of the ability to combine the results with a wealth of additional information, the authors can make very rich fine-grained observations about the behavior of various subpopulations in the experiment. While the initial experiment illustrates a basic "if-then" relationship between race and landlord response this heterogeneity in treatment effect allows us to test possible explanatory mechanisms for the relationship, to an extent. For example, by collecting AirBnB observational data on the host demographics the authors show that the racial gap is invariant with respect to the landlord's race, number of listings, age, and experience. Joining with AirBnB information on the property listing, the authors show that the racial gap is also invariant with respect to property size, price and whether the property is shared. Finally, the researchers geocode the data and tie the listing to census data on demographics. Again, the gap is invariant with respect to the racial makeup of the surrounding area.  

In addition to measuring the overall treatment effect we are interested in the mechanism through which this treatment effect acts. Developing fine-grain observations can inform this but ultimately the experimental procedure cannot answer this question. For example, we might hypothesize that the racial gap exists because landlords desire to rent to their own race. However, this is inconsistent with the fine-grained observation that the gap persists even with black landlords so we need to rethink the mechanism. Also, the authors state that the gap is most pronounced in landlords that have never had a black guest. The experiment identifies the relationship but cannot differentiate which way the causality goes: does the landlord have no history of black guests because they discriminate and refuse black renters or does the landlord refuse the experimental black guest because they are not used to housing black guests?  
 

### Reflection on both studies 

Despite strong independent conclusions, each study has areas of weakness resulting from the limits of the respective research design. Taken together, the contrasting research designs are mutually reinforcing and paint a comprehensive picture of the effect of racial discrimination in the market. Generally speaking, observational studies have better external validity than internal validity while experimental studies have better internal validity than external validity. However, in this case, because the observational study is narrowly confined to New York City which is not necessarily representative I have questions about the observation study's external validity. The benefit of undertaking both studies is that the AirBnB dynamics require both a landlord and a renter and each study focuses on discrimination experienced by precisely one side of that relationship. The observational study quantifies the penalty black landlords face and the experimental study quantifies the penalty renters face. Together, they form a complete picture of both the supply-side and the demand-side of an AirBnB transaction. The research designs cover each other's weaknesses in other ways as well. For example, the observational study is narrowly restricted to New York City, hurting its external validity. In contrast, the experiment is performed on different cities and the findings are robust to the choice of city, giving greater confidence that the strong results seen in NYC are applicable to other cities as well.  

Both studies show that there is a discrimination effect present in the AirBnB market. However, both studies are limited in the extent to which they can explain why this effect occurs. Conducting a survey study, because it directly queries participants' frame of mind, is better equipped to explain the motivations behind the discrimination effects. As of the 2014 observational paper, AirBnB declined participating in the research process. However, at the time of the publication of the 2017 article AirBnB was taking steps to address racial discrimination in its marketplace. Therefore, perhaps AirBnB would support and aid in administering a properly designed survey directed at landlords. A limitation about a survey aimed at racial preferences is that individuals may not want to disclose certain beliefs perceived as taboo. To overcome this, we can utilize the fact that often potentially racial motivations are correlated with other more socially acceptable indicators. Disentangling these correlated explanatory factors could allow us to isolate racial motivations. For example, the experimental analysis stated that a major limitation is that landlords could perceive a black name as a signal of lower economic status. By querying landlords about preferences for high-income tenants, we can gauge the extent to which landlords actually do care about economic status rather than racial characteristics. For example, a simple survey to landlords could ask them to rate the importance of various factors when evaluating a potential tenant. These factors could include: renter history, rating, job, motivation for stay, and picture quality (among others). Because the racial information is transmitted through the picture, by rating picture quality as highly important landlords could be revealing that race is unconsciously motivating them. Similarly, the motivation for the stay can reveal economic status - a vacation is indicative of a high income individual but temporary housing for a family may indicate a low income.  By novel designing of questions we can induce landlords to reveal their preferences while not revealing the true research goal. Such insight into mindsights could reveal the motivation behind the effects measured in the preceding two studies.  


