---
title: "Assignment #2: Proposing a survey study"
author: "Cooper Nederhood"

---

In a short paper (1200-1500 words), propose a research study based on a question you find interesting and explain how you would use data collected through a **digitally-enhanced** survey to answer your question. You should (briefly) state your topic of interest and the specific question you seek to answer in this research project. Next, identify the basic structure and format of the survey and the key questions you would include.

This study asks how increasing access to public transportation in poor underserved areas of cities increases the quality of life of the area's residents. Poor neighborhoods are often located on the outskirts of the city far from the city center and are thus physically removed from major economic activity. Residents are less likely to be able to afford adequate private transportation and this physical isolation could restrict labor choices. When previously neglected areas of a city become more fully integrated, does the increased mobility allow citizens greater labor opportunities lead to increases in household income? We address this question by combining neighborhood-level observational economic statistics with digitally-enhanced survey data regarding use of transportation. While these dynamics are generally present in all cities, Bogota, the capital city of Colombia, provides an ideal setting to study the effects. It is one of the largest cities in the Americas, has large underserved poor neighborhoods, and, most importantly, initiated a bold public transportation project in the past 20 years during which ample data is available. Further, the target population for the comparative analysis is ideally reached via modern digitally-enhanced survey methods.

First, we identify a set of low-income neighborhoods within the city that are economically and demographically homogeneous **before** the initiation of the public transportation project. While the set of neighborhoods should be economically similar historically, they should then vary in the extent to which the new public transportation works reach their respective neighborhood. According to our hypothesis, this heterogeneity in public transportation may be correlated with any economic heterogeneity we observe today. 

Rather than relying on observation measures to quantify the use of public transportation we will directly engage the neighborhoods through a digital survey. Because we are interested in patterns of behavior, directly querying the population of interest allows us to more accurately represent the research construct. The target populations are each of the neighborhoods in the comparison group. In the United States, surveys are traditionally conducted through calls to telephone landlines. In Colombian cities like Bogota, cell phone usage has surpassed land line usage. Further, because the cell phone network is dominated by three large carriers cell phone calls across carriers are especially expensive. The potentially prohibitive cost of receiving the call would distort the representativeness of a survey through cell phone calls. A simple survey administered via standard text messaging would have a much higher response rate. However, because the population includes low-income individuals the survey will be most representative if we can further lower the cost of participating. The messenger service WhatsApp has become nearly ubiquitous in Colombia with nearly 90% of smartphone cellphone users mentioning the platform (www.emarker.com). This service is free with a data plan and is not limited by any cross-platform or carrier differences. Digitally-enhancing the survey and targeting users through WhatsApp should greatly increase the participation rate of the survey and lead to increased representativeness. 

Distributing the survey via the digitally-enhanced WhatsApp platform should help minimize any distortions due to non-response. However, the population of cell phone users in each respective neighborhood is not a perfect representation of the corresponding target population. First, there are obviously people without cell phones which cannot be reached. These are most likely the lowest income individuals and, therefore, are the very people we most need to study. Further, the WhatsApp platform is only available to smartphone users, which account for about 68% of cellphone users (www.emarker.com). This number is probably lower in the neighborhoods of interest. The users with standard cellphones will be sampled via SMS text messages which may have a different response rate than the WhatsApp cohort. We can correct for any possible coverage error via post-stratification, assuming we can gain access to the necessary data. The state-supplied data we utilize for neighborhood income levels should also contain basic demographic information regarding gender breakdown, age distributions, and household income. Because these indicators may be strongly correlated with labor decisions, if we are systematically under or over-representing any group we could have a biased sample. To ensure our final respondent group is representative of the target population we also need individual-level data from the respondents. We may be able to obtain basic demographic information from the respective phone companies. If the phone companies are not willing to supply the data, then we could include demographic questions in the survey. The survey is designed to be extremely short and easy for respondents so while this would increase the length of the survey and possibly decrease the response rate, it may be unavoidable. Gaining the ability to properly reweight the responses may outweigh the decrease in response rate. 

When using purely observation data to answer this research question, it is difficult to operationalize the abstract research construct regarding how integrated a neighborhood is to the larger city. We can try circumventing this through combining geographic data with maps of public transportation routes. However, a direct survey on basic commuting habits and daily use of public transportation is a more direct and intuitive measure. Questions like "How far is your place of work from your house?" and "How do you get to work?" should give a much clearer picture of whether individuals have used public transportation to expand their range of economic opportunities. There is the possibility that our labor market focused hypothesis is not correct, so including the query "Why do you take public transportation?" would allow us to identify individuals that are heading to leisure activities or are heading to buy/sell goods, among others. 

One possible flaw with this research design is that the process whereby labor market decisions across a neighborhood change may be very slow. Just because a new bus line opens in a neighborhood does not mean that the principal wage earner in a family begins venturing into the downtown city seeking more gainful employment. Especially in low-income areas, risk-adverse workers may be resistant to break with the security of the current employment. If enhanced mobility predominately affects younger workers just entering the labor market, the effect will be gradual. Perhaps the greatest impact is that school-age children have better access to development resources, in which case the effect will be even more gradual. Finally, we may have the casual mechanism completely backwards. Perhaps rather than increasing the ability of residents to leave the neighborhood it is the increasing flow of outsiders coming **into** the neighborhood that leads to prosperity. More visitors to a neighborhood could cause a boon in sales for local merchants and businesses. 

Finally, to further enrich the survey data, we could employ one additional potentially novel survey to better understand general motivations for using public transportation. Rather than directly survey individuals, we could install signs at bus and rail stops asking travelers to text a phone number a unique code corresponding to their motivation for travelling. As part of an effort to ultimately better serve their needs, travelers would be free to share the motivations for any number of their trips. This would be analogous to a banner survey ad on a website that is always asking for participants. If enough respondents participate over time across both bus and train lines, we could have a picture of how motivation is related to transportation choice. Finally, if a respondent chose to text their motivation for travel they are signaling a willingness to participate in surveys and would be ideal candidates for further questioning, which could aid in obtaining demographic information needed in the post-stratification adjustment. 



