---
title: "Assignment #3: Experimental study"
author: "Cooper Nederhood"
---

In a short paper (1200-1500 words), propose a research study based on a question you find interesting and explain how you would use a computationally-enhanced experiment to answer your question. You should (briefly) state your topic of interest and the specific question you seek to answer in this research project. Next, identify the basic structure and format of the experiment.

This study asks how increasing access to public transportation in poor underserved areas of cities increases the quality of life of the area's residents. Poor neighborhoods are often located on the outskirts of the city far from the city center and are thus physically removed from major economic activity. Residents are less likely to be able to afford adequate private transportation and this physical isolation could restrict labor choices. When previously neglected areas of a city become more fully integrated, does the increased mobility provide greater labor options for residents? This study examines the labor market in Santiago, the capital city of Chile, because of its economic importance to South America and because it has initiated large-scale public transit projects in the last 30 years. 

To test the causal relationship between public transportation access and labor market choices, we could identify a set of individuals actively seeking employment, randomly assigning half to receive the treatment and half to receive the control. In this case, treatment could include some combination of bus and train vouchers, a bicycle, or a motorcycle. If the hypothesis holds, the treatment group should search for and ultimately find a more geographically diverse set of jobs than the control group. The main flaw with this experimental design is the high cost to operationalize the construct of increased public transportation. Assigning treatment to a participant entails such a high variable cost, so any study would have to test only a relatively small test group, thereby limiting the scope of the research. However, perhaps we can reformulate the research question into something equivalent which can take better advantage of a computationally-enhanced experiment.

If increasing an individual's transportation resources increases labor options, then perhaps a job posting in a well-integrated area of the city would receive more applications than an equivalent posting in an isolated area. By studying the labor market from the viewpoint of the employer rather than the prospective employee we can more fully utilize the advantages of digitally-enhanced experiments. However, by reformulating the research question we introduce the possibility that the experimental design no longer accurately reflects the original construct. This construct validity is particularly important because any findings could be relied upon for policy decisions. 

Santiago provides an ideal experiment environment because of the high usage of the job market site LinkedIn relative other South American cities. As of 2014, 13.2% of the Chilean population was using LinkedIn, the highest usage of any South American country (www.latinpost.com). The experiment will test whether job postings within a half mile of a bus or rail stop generate more applications and more geographically diverse applications than a comparable but isolated job posting. Specifically, researchers begin by writing a set of LinkedIn job postings. Recruiting professionals can provide guidance on developing the postings to ensure postings are comparable and can form valid control and treatment groups. The postings are randomly assigned to the treatment and control groups, with the treatment being a listed address within a half mile of a bus or rail stop. The control group postings will have some address deemed to be neither close nor incredibly far from a bus or rail stop. Each listing will remain on LinkedIn for 4 weeks, generating connections with applicants. Once all postings have been tested, the connections can be compared between the control and the treatment group.

This design utilizes many advantages of digitally-enhanced field experiments. First, the "participants" in the experiment are individuals using LinkedIn. Because the variable cost of each additional test post is so low, we can introduce variation in the characteristics of the posts, increasing the scope of the experiment. For example, it is reasonable to expect that low-income and high-income postings would be sensitive to the job location in different ways. High-income individuals are more likely to use private transportation, in which case proximity to rail and train lines is irrelevant. By introducing low, middle, and high-income test posts into the research design we can detect heterogeneity of the treatment effect with respect to income level. Showing that low-income job postings are more affected by the posting location than high-income postings reveals a mechanism through which public transportation affects the employment options of various neighborhoods.  Further, the LinkedIn coverage of basic minimum-wage jobs, which are of particular concern when studying the labor choices in poor neighborhoods, is most likely quite low. By introducing heterogeneity in the income level of the test posting, at least we can begin to understand the relationship between the treatment effect and income. 

Ultimately, this research question is aimed at directing urban policy, so the external validity of the experiment is crucial. The external validity is already in question because we reformulated the research question to better utilize experimental methods. Perhaps the reformulated question does not as directly address the connection between public transportation and labor market decisions. Further, there is reason to doubt that LinkedIn captures the broad dynamics of the labor market. It is likely to be highly skewed towards young, technologically savvy users.  LinkedIn collects digital traces on its users, so obtaining additional information on the applicants could quantify the representativeness of the experiment. Further, even if the location treatment does not change the number of applicants perhaps it alters the characteristics of the applicant pool. Supplementing the experimental results with LinkedIn information could add greater precision to any findings.

The experiment as currently formulated has a large ethical concern. Namely, is it ethically wrong to make fictitious posts on a job posting website? While the variable cost to the researcher of adding another test post is small, every application generated takes valuable time away from job seekers. The cost of a test post is born not by the researchers but by the applicants. Realistically, to minimize any distortion in the LinkedIn dynamics the test posts would have to be gradually tested. A sudden massive influx of fictitious posts would most certainly be detected by the system. Gradual testing would be more feasible but perhaps the social cost of deliberately deceiving applicants is not worth the benefits of the research.

Overall, exploring the relationship between labor market decisions and public transportation is probably better addressed through observational studies and surveys. Because operationalizing the public transportation construct is so expensive, it does not naturally lead to a reasonable treatment. However, observational studies utilizing a natural experiment can be more effective. A survey study, directly addressing the decision making of the target population, offers the most straightforward research approach. 

