---
title: "Assignment #1: Proposing an observational study"
author: "Cooper Nederhood"

---

In a short paper (1200-1500 words), propose a research study based on a question you find interesting and explain how you would use observational digital data to answer your question. You should (briefly) explain your topic of interest and the specific question you seek to answer in this research project. Next, identify the basic research design you will undertake (e.g. counting things, measuring something, forecasting, natural experiment, matching) and the source of the data. You do not need to include detailed on information such as the specific statistical method you will use to analyze the data, just identify the basic framework of the project.




This study assesses how increasing access to public transportation in poor underserved areas of cities increases the quality of life of the area's residents. Poor neighborhoods are often located on the outskirts of the city far from the city center and are thus physically removed from major economic activity. Residents are less likely to be able to afford adequate private transportation. Physical isolation restricts labor choices and discourages private commercial investment in the area. When previously neglected areas of a city become more fully integrated it allows citizens greater labor opportunities and encourages commercial development in the area. These effects are mutually reinforcing.

While this dynamic can apply to many metropolitan areas across the world, it is especially acute in parts of the developing world. This study examines three cities in Latin America: Bogota, Colombia; Medellin, Colombia; and Santiago, Chile. These cities provide ideal environments to study this effect. First, there are large variations in wealth. Modern city centers contrast with informal slums often on hillsides on the outskirts of the city. Second, poor residents often lack cars or other personal transportation and are thus well suited for public transportation. Third, before the relatively recent public transportation projects, public transportation was almost nonexistent allowing us to observe as areas move from non-integrated to fully-integrated. Most importantly, these public transportation projects began within the last 20+ years so we have access to broad neighborhood level census data over time which can be tied to a location in the city using  geo and maps data to determine how these measures change as public transportation comes to the area. We utilize the fact that the public transportation projects are large ongoing projects and thus reach parts of the cities at different times and are still yet to incorporate the entire city. Specifically, matching neighborhoods within a city which are similar in original characteristics but differ in public transportation provides a natural treatment and control group for our comparison.

The dependent variable we analyze is the quality of life of residents in poor neighborhoods of the three cities of interest. To operationalize this construct, we collect three metrics. First, we collect neighborhood-level household income using municipality census data. The National Administrative Department of Statistics (DANE) in Colombia publishes micro and meta data documented under international standards going back to 1973, including information on Bogota and Medellin (the two largest cities in Colombia). The National Statistics Institute of Chile provides analogous census data for Santiago (the largest city in Chile). Both of these sources can also provide data on commercial investment. To supplement the commercial investment data, which may not be as granular as the household income data, we can use machine-learning algorithms to identify store openings and closings in public records and local press releases. Together this will give us a measure of the investment in a particular area. Our third metric of quality of life relates to crime. Again, we can supplement crime statistics from state-supplied census records with event-based data from public records and local press releases. For example, analyzing crime reports in local newspapers should provide a reasonable metric to detect changes in overall crime levels.
	
An important complication regarding the three metrics of quality of life is that all neighborhood level statistics need to be mapped to a geographical location within each city. Without this geocoding, we cannot measure the initial isolation of the community and later integration through public transportation. I am not yet aware as to the extent that the data contains coordinates but in the event that neighborhood data does not contain approximate coordinates, that information can be constructed by hand if needed.
	
Assuming we have obtained sufficient geo-specific quality of life metrics covering each city the next step is to operationalize the initial isolation of the city absent any public transportation. There is not an obvious direct measure of this but using the distance from the city center to the neighborhood along with a measure of the absolute elevation difference should yield a reasonable metric. We include the absolute elevation difference because undesirable hillsides are often sites of slums. While the quality of life data will be longitudinal and geo-specific, the initial isolation will be a static variable.
	   
Finally, to operationalize access to public transportation, which could include buses, rail systems, and cable cars, we can utilize publicly available public transportation maps to calculate the distance to the various lines for each one of our neighborhoods. Neighborhoods that are more integrated will have lower distances to various public transportation options. Critically, because these maps change over time as new lines are completed we can observe relationships between integration and the quality of life measures. Within a city, we can match neighborhoods based on quality of life and the initial isolation of the community. Within a matched group, some neighborhoods will receive increased public transportation access and others will not, or will receive it a later date. 
	
The most traditional "big" data in this approach is the event data used to supplement commercial investment and crime statistics. While both of these fields should be included in governmental census data, a granular approach allows the study to get closer to the actual community involved. Overall, the data is "big" in the sense that it brings together a plethora of diverse data sources and types. The state census data, while a traditional source, is available through time and at the neighborhood level and is thus a rich data set in its own right. Supplementing this data with event analysis on investment and crime brings additional depth. Geocoding this data to parts of the city adds additional complexity and allows us to construct a picture of the city through time. Finally, joining the deep economic picture of the city with its public transportation network further enriches the dataset. 
	
Because we will use a matching procedure to draw causal inferences it is vital that we are confident in the comparability of the matches. As discussed, bringing together such diverse and rich data allows us to quantify important economic and geographic characteristics of various neighborhoods on which to base the match. In addition to having relevant metrics to quantify similarities we have data on all neighborhoods across each city. The sheer number of neighborhoods increases the likelihood of finding neighborhoods that are similar economically but only differ in the degree of new public transportation.

While bringing together a variety of data sources provides a rich dataset it also creates many challenges. First, the data will certainly be very dirty and will require significant up-front costs to assemble a useful comprehensive database. It is likely that official government data between the two countries is structured differently and may not quantify measures consistently. Economic measures and transportation information is crucial to this study. Because all of the data is being pulled from outside 3rd parties not associated with the research question it may not align well with the research interests. 
	
Further, the data is likely to be incomplete. The economic measures are aggregated neighborhood-level summaries rather than highly granular income records. Because of this aggregation, individual household decisions are lost. For example, perhaps the opening of a new rail line induces higher income individuals to move to the neighborhood because the area is now more desirable. Our data cannot detect this. If initial analysis is fruitful, perhaps future research can access privileged tax data kept by the various governments. Another by-product of the incompleteness and dirty nature of the data is potential issues in how we have operationalized our theoretical constructs. Perhaps income levels cannot detect additional complexities in the economic picture. Neighborhood dynamics and conditions are infinitely complex and varied and any statement that two neighborhoods are sufficiently the same is open to criticism. The decisions on how and where to build public transportation is clearly not random. Rather, it reflects important local dynamics unknown to the researchers and invisible to the data. Perhaps the most pressing issue is the potential non-representativeness of the data. Because of the informal nature of some of the poorest slums many of the poorest residents which are of principal interest to the study may not be reflected in economic figures published by the governments. While there are clear issues with the data backing the study, ultimately there is still sound theory underlying the decisions are complications in the study should suggest areas of refinement in future study rather than invalidate the results.
	


