## Who will be the next on _Billboard_? Mapping the dynamics of popular music

### Introduction

The digital age provides social scientists with rich data resources online. The development of ICTs is beneficial in the sense that researchers can explore human behavior of different patterns and long-term evolution of different society with always-on big data. Despite that, computer science techniques have not been fully maneuvered in the field of sociology, especially cultural studies. Few efforts have been made by cultural sociologists to explore the nectar brought about by technological advance (Bail).

In this sense, Askina and Mauskapf (2016) enacted a milestone. They explored data from weekly _Billboard_ Hot 100 charts during the year 1958 to 2016 and designed models to predict how popular a song can be. They discovered that successful music should have a good tradeoff between similarity and difference from previous hits on the market, which means to rank high in the charts popular music should have its distinct typicality while proximity to its influential peers. They demonstrated that cultural products&#39; position in feature space is a good predictor of their success in marketplace.

However, it&#39;s still unclear what &quot;similarity&quot; or &quot;typicality&quot; actually means. In Askina and Mauskapf&#39;s models, they used weighted genre and sonic features to capture the typicality of songs, which are still limited to imply the inner dynamics of music products despite their robust prediction power. They used weighted genre characteristics based on the categorization on Billboard as part of a music&#39;s feature, but the classification can only tell part of the story. If the model can explain the fundamentals behind the overlapping categories of certain piece of music, better prediction is still possible. To instill music&#39;s cultural essence, contents, or lyrics of songs cannot be excluded when we consider its properties. Lyrics of music can help us better understand the embedded social dynamics of popular culture, as well as trace the cognitive development of consumers.

Thus, the paper aims to raise a model including the lyrics of songs to measure its feature which can help to predict music&#39;s popularity. The research question is postulated as follow: How well does music&#39;s lyrics individually and altogether with sonic attributes predict its popularity in the market?

### Research Design

The study mainly uses measuring to fulfil the research goal. The dataset to be utilized also comes from the weekly _Billboard_ Hot 100 charts, from on August 4, 1958 through March 26, 2016, as Askina and Mauskapf&#39;s research. The data is accessible through an online repository &quot;The Whitburn Project&quot; by Joel Whitburn, who collected detailed information of songs and albums on the charts, and week-to-week rankings for more than 26,800 songs spanning almost 60 years. Because of the short of lyrics on the platform, the study merge data from the music service of Sportify, one of the largest music service application worldwide to scrape texts of songs in the sample, and append lyrics to each music sampled.

In the preliminary stage, I will design music categorization based on lyric contents. In Askina and Mauskapf&#39;s research, they uses ten attributes of music after weighted to measure its sonic feature. In order to measure the complex dimensions of lyrics, the study refers toTsaptsinos&#39;s research (2017). Tsaptsinos used hierarchical network models to examine how different words are significantly related to a specific genre, and demonstrates that lyrics can predict a music&#39;s genre. In this study, I will first conduct pretests by selecting a representative amount of music from every popular genre and extract a particular amount of the most frequent words in lyrics of every single music (excluding the un-meaningful wording). Then, based on the distribution of different words, I will propose a sufficient amount of lyric categories. After that, within the whole pool of texts of all music, based on Tsaptsino&#39;s model, predict the probabilities of what lyric categories (not genre, but the new categorization) the music should belong to.

The following steps emulates the one of Askina and Mauskapf. As for the second phase of research, multivariate regressions will be implemented to calculate the coefficient of each lyric categorization related to the ranks of music and week length it was posted on _Billboard_ (two dependent variables). Then get the lyric-weighted typicality compared with music on the ranks in previous weeks (also consider the difference of time on the charts) to predict the music&#39;s popularity and check its validity. After that, combined with sonic features, the sonic attributes will also be weighted to calculate a single music&#39;s typicality in the model to predict the dependent variable to see whether lyric-weighted typicality is robust enough.

In order to supplement the study, music&#39;s different subgroups of lyrics would be looked into in particular. For each lyric categorization, the study will inspect how different lyric types influence a music&#39;s ranking by graphing the distribution of weights of each lyric-category regarding to ranks/weeks on the charts. This helps to visualize different preferences over different lyrics and how the differences change over time.

The study applies measuring things in order to coagulate a robust independent variable to predict consumers&#39; preferences of music products. Measuring things can include multi-dimensions into a single model to balance different effects of parallel constructs. With the help of measuring, the study is able capture the intricate contents of music without close readings of texts of each piece of song.

### Significance of the Study

The most significant characteristic of the study is that it takes great advantage of the copious data resources available online in such digital age. Traditionally, it&#39;s overwhelming for sociologists to extract and digest textual information of cultural products. But nowadays, big data provides cultural sociologists mediums to approach dynamics and evolution of human creation and understand human&#39;s cognitive attributes of pop cultural consumption. The bigger the dataset, the more dimensions people to investigate cultural products and their relationships with human.

In addition, due to the always-on nature of digital data, the study manages to collect longitudinal information of music and _Billboard_ charts. Since 1998, Joel Whitburn have kept publishing anthologies of charts in Billboard which provides precious raw material for this study. On one hand, with the always-on data, the study can look into the time dimensions, and investigate evolution of music market by including time-concerning variables in the model. On the other, considering subsequent research, the model can give implication to other changing contextual mechanisms such as cultural environments or meaningsystems of musical texts. In the long run, the measurement not only predicts success of a particular music but how the whole market ecology is shifting.

 What&#39;s more, the abundance of data makes it possible to study the subgenres. The categorization of music would not simply rely on the sonic features and instruments, but also textual contents, emotions, and culture embedded inside the music. The new model helps redefine the genre of music, reconstruct cultural frame of lyrics, and reconsider the patterns of people&#39;s pop culture consumption.

Also, big data serves the research by giving enough elements for the non-representative groups. Some marginal genres of lyrics cannot be observed if we only have a very small amount of sample. Thanks to the longitudinal dataset provided online, uncommon music is also attainable with an outstanding amount.

Undoubtedly, the study still have some weakness because of the nature of big data. First of all, the sheer volume of data can be formidable, and the raw material obtained from music&#39;s lyrics is definitely dirty. To capture contents of songs, the large corpora cannot be coded by hand, and iterated data-cleaning and trials are required to deal with the lexicons. However, as long as the models has come out, new techniques to measure implicit characteristics of cultural products deserve the onerous tasks. Sociologists are always worried about the simplified nature of quantitative study, while big data helps observe the most critical heterogeneity within specific culture.

Also, drifting is another obstacle to social science research if researchers overly rely on big data. Not only the modes of human behavior are always changing, the system of _Billboard_ ranking might also change. To system drifting, it&#39;s required to keep track of the alteration of ranking algorithms and trace the change of music market to explain anomalies in music market.

Cultural sociologists can make huge strides forward if big data resources are fully utilized and can also advance theories of social change simply by mapping the relations among cultural elements, actors, and events over time.

### Reference

Askin, N., &amp; Mauskapf, M. (2017). What Makes Popular Culture Popular? Product Features and Optimal Differentiation in Music. _American Sociological Review_, _82_(5), 910-944.

Bail, C. A. (2014). The cultural environment: Measuring culture with big data. _Theory and Society_, _43_(3-4), 465-482.

Tsaptsinos, A. (2017). Lyrics-Based Music Genre Classification Using a Hierarchical Attention Network. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.04678_.