## **Ethics HW**
## **Weiwei Zheng**

### Problem 1 
The research concerned is going to be analyzed under the four principles raised by Salganik. As for respect for person, two basic premises should be fulfilled 1) Individuals should be treated as autonomous and 2) individuals with diminished autonomy should be entitled to additional protections. These two conditions are usually understood as to get respondents’ informed consent before researchers are letting respondents to go through some experiments. In the election experiment, though respondents were not put into danger in this case, neither were they informed about the purpose and outcomes of the research project. 

Therefore, the research is an unethical one since humans were not treated as autonomous beings able to control their own life. The researchers might argue if they had told respondents of the study and potential outcome of the treatment, people might have refused to read the mailers and they might have got a low response rate which influences the validity of research design. However, as I see, for researchers themselves, telling respondents about the experiments will not necessarily impact the result. They might have read the balanced information in mailers more carefully and get information helpful for them which would have motivated them to make a rational decision. Hence, the research would be a better one if informed consent were got from people.

As for the second principle, beneficence, benefits and risks of the experiment should be handled in an appropriate way. The research should not cause harm and maximize the benefits of human society. These concerns were not much involved in this study, for the files sent to people would not have done much harm to them, neither physically nor mentally. And the research results can help improve arranging of political campaigns, so the study is ethical under the second principle. 

In terms of the third one, justice, benefits and risks should be distributed fairly. Given that researchers were not putting respondents in any life-threatening context or deceiving them to do anything harmful, there’s not much for researchers to compensate for respondents. However, due to the different treatment on treatment group and control group, people not receiving mailers should be made up for being intentionally under-informed considering they might have wanted to vote with inclusive information of the campaign provided. 

When it comes to the last one, respect for law and public interest, there’s the most arguable part incurring heated criticism in the study. Researchers should consider compliance and transparency-based accountability. Compliance means that researchers attempt to identify and obey relevant laws, contracts, and terms of service. Obviously, the research team influenced the ongoing of the election. Despite the fact that their treatment on distribution of votes received by every candidates were argued to be negligible, they were actually doing something to change people’s mindset on voting without consent by the government. This is one of the main fallacies of the study. And also, they used the seal by government to cheat the voters without getting consent. Evidently, this is another wrong incurring people’s despise. 

On the other hand, transparency-based accountability means researchers need to be clear about the goals, methods, and results at all stages of their research process and to take responsibility for their actions. The research aims to ameliorate political activities and find out ways to motivate rational participation in partisan elections. To be credible researchers, they should assume the responsibility whatever unexpected happened after the well-controlled research process. So facing the suspecting from different interest groups after the study, they should have clarified what was understated, debriefed for ignorant voters and apologized for whatever loopholes, rather than one-sidedly eschew the responsibility and insisted on not exerting any impact on the election itself. 

### Problem 2
If the sampling had been random, the study treatment on voters would have impacted the outcomes of election only when the treatment effects were systematically related to partisanship. For example, with the similar amount of extra information about different candidates, assuming that information was fairly presented to treatment groups and control groups, if the increase in voting by democratic affiliated individuals had been significantly higher than that of republicans, the outcome must have been altered. To prevent that, researchers should have considered different possible outcomes of the study, got the experiment under rigorous control and tried different ways let the research under control. 

### Problem 3
Researchers actually wanted to study the heterogeneity of the effects by giving non-random sampling. Firstly, I think it is unnecessary. Given the large sample understudy, effects on different subgroups are also observable, unless the treatment effect was too trivial to grab our attention. Second, suppose the treatment effect had been similar on different subgroups, namely with same set of mailer provided, a democrat and a republican have the same increase in their propensity to vote, the disproportionate sampling of voters would have outstanding influence on the voting result. 

### Problem 4
I strongly disagree with the statement by the researcher. First, the situation in the past cannot be generalized to the present. Even though neither judicial race had been closely contested in the primary, they couldn’t preclude the effect of time in the experiment without controlling the time. Second, even if the condition of voting hadn’t changed much compared with the previous voting, researchers actually didn’t know the exact effect of their research on the voting until the result finally came out. Did they ever think about how to tackle the problem beforehand if the research result had been far more different than the actual situation? They should admitted that they failed to think out a well-rounded way to tackle something unanticipated, and the optimistic outcome in the voting should not be their post-hoc excuse for not apologizing or conceding some prominent mistakes they have made. 

### Problem 5
Same as the abovementioned, without making time-controlled experiment to compare the current and the past of both treatment group and control group, the current outcomes of voting cannot say anything about whether the research itself has an effect on the voting results. Definitely, the not closely distributed votes by different candidates caveat that even a trivial, neutral and good-intentioned act can possibly have inestimable impact on the human society. My assessment doesn’t change given the voting distribution.

### Problem 6
Admittedly, the participation of private sector might arouse our suspicion of the underlying intention of the research design, but it doesn’t mean it’s always unethical for researchers to cooperate with other profit-oriented interest group to conduct the study. For one thing, to conduct large scale research in the big data era, it’s hard for academic institutions or university researchers to accomplish a well-organized design themselves. Sometimes material and human resources are sometimes hard to obtain to conduct a large scale research despite the good intention and innovative research design. If researchers have good chance to get sponsored by competent private sectors they should make full use of the opportunities. For another, when researchers have a chance to collaborate with a private institute what they should consider how they can try their best to hold firm the ethical fundamentals in human research as a professional but not handing over all handling of critical details to the interest group involved. It’s acceptable to have co-founder of CrowdPAC to take part in the project, but their participation should never be the excuse of researchers to loosen their own grip on the research. 

### Problem 7
If I were the principal investigators, I would do several modifications on the researcher. First of all, I would get consent of the government to as a respect for law and public interest. I would try to persuade government officers of the potential good of the research to get their support in the project. The research is unavoidably posing some effects on the voting, but with rigorously controlled procedure a fair balance of risk and benefit can be reached and it might bring about unmeasurable inspiration on the voting system. In this sense, we wouldn’t need to deceive voters with a fake seal on the mailers. 

In addition, I would get participants consent when distributing the candidate information. Just a brief introduction written in the beginning of the candidate material telling readers that it is part of a political science research advocated by both academic field and the government and that’s all. We don’t need to motivate them to read the material carefully so as not to violate the internal validity. But we can get their consent by giving them the freedom to read the information or not. 

Moreover, I would control the time effect in the study. Maybe I would do a study for two rounds or two years of election with doing nothing on first year and then use Difference-in-difference method to compare the effect of additional information on nonpartisan races in treatment groups and control groups along the time process. This measurement can also tell us whether the implementation of treatment poses a negative effect on the voting. 


