## Cultural Consumption and High-status Insecurity---A Facebook-enhanced Survey Study

#### Introduction

The study aims to examine the relations between social elites’ cultural assumption and their perception of status authenticity. People’s taste has long been regarded as related to their social status. According to traditional schools in cultural studies, status groups express their social positions by enacting a typical life-style. Sophisticated perception and practices of typical culture distinguish people in higher social spectrums from the underclass. People of higher status are inclined to participate more in highbrow culture consumption, while ones of lower status are more likely to consume lowbrow genres. This phenomenon is partly shaped by structural distinction of taste and different attributes determined by socioeconomic status. 

However, consumption of low-end culture is not restricted to the contemporary high-status group, and they have been found to become cultural omnivores. Many studies found that high-status groups are those who most emphasize authenticity in low-brow culture. It is believed that high-status groups’ preference towards lowbrow culture is due to its “disinterestedness”, which is not motivated by highbrow standards or profits. Hahl’s study discovers that high-status’ groups’ pursuit in authenticity of lowbrow culture stems from the lack of security over their status authenticity. Social elites are to different extents concerned about legitimacy of their status attainment. If they are suspected not fulfilling their professed values of positions, or being “inauthentic”, they will seek outer lowbrow source of authenticity to increase trusts of spectators. Lowbrow but authentic cultural products are one of the source for them to alleviate status denigration. 

However, since Hahl’s study was completed through experimental research, in which researchers manipulate attendants’ (college students) perception of their status and status authenticity, the theories being tested haven’t been put into real-world practice. In addition, the experiments in the study included limited range of cultural products as treatment, and how to research categorize certain cultural products was understated. 

Thus, this study intends to test the theory with help of the big data resources and try to extend its contribution to predict cognitive conditions of social elites. The research questions are proposed as follow: How closed is social elites’ insecurity of their status authenticity related to their pursuit of lowbrow culture? And how well does social elites’ lowbrow cultural consumption predict their cognitive stage of status authenticity?

#### Research Design

The study is going to use digital-enhanced survey and implement amplified asking to accomplish the research goal, and the sample will be volunteers recruiting from Facebook. Facebook volunteers will answer a questionnaire whose first part asks them to give their demographic information, including income, living expense, occupations, and etc. Since the target of the study is social elites, other respondents will be excluded from the study. Those of high social status (passing the income and living expense threshold and possessing middle-class occupations) will be asked to answer the second half of question to measure their security condition of their status authenticity. 
  
In the second part, questions involve factual and perceptual dimensions over respondents’ high-status insecurity and they are all closed-ended. For example, the questionnaire will ask for their recent experience of stigma in workplace (being complained, despised, denigrated, penalized, accused, etc. by audience/clients of their jobs), and also their perception of job status (confidence and worry about in their past, current and future performance). All answers will be checked internal validity and weighted to get a final measurement of their insecurity of status authenticity before further analysis. Before the survey is distributed, offline volunteers will be recruited to test the validity of the questionnaire. 

The online sample of the research is to be recruited by non-probability sampling. Given the high cost of implementing probability sampling, it’s easier and more convenient to recruit participants using non-probability sampling among the plethora of Facebook users. The same questionnaire will be distributed on Facebook and those who finish the whole set of survey will be analyzed. Besides recruiting enough social elites from the study, the study also adopt the strategy of sampling matching to get enough respondents from different income spectrums and occupation categorization (working in different sectors) to prevent potential bias to the result. 

After a balanced sample of social elites is recruited, relevant posts they like on Facebook will be inspected. Among the posts, those released by public accounts concerning dominant popular culture categories (TV series, movies, novels, gaming, food and tourism) and high frequency of viewing among respondents will be sampled. Then the study will use keyword indexing to grade the content. The lower the threshold of accessibility, the lower the cost of consumption, and the more vulgar the usage of language the culture, more lowbrow it is. The amount of posts will be reduced such that it’s possible for analysis. By comparing what culture social elites like and how insecure they feel about their status, the study can check how closed the two dimensions are related. 

Then other anonymous users who also like the post in the analyzed sample are objectives for the second half of the study. Those not from high social status (by deducting from other posts they like, and demographic information using machine learning) will be excluded, and their likes in cultural posts of different grades will be used to predict their insecurity of high-status authenticity. After the prediction, the validity will be evaluated by distributing the same questionnaire mentioned earlier to measure the cognitive status. The sampling will stopped till enough sample space is recruited to produce robust results. 
  
#### Significance of the Study

The study benefits from the strength of digital resources. The richness of online record in Facebook enables the study to incorporate a large range of cultural items and look into large population. The population size makes us possible to conduct non-probability sampling matching to include enough participants.
  
Digital-enhanced survey is definitely a more suitable method for the study compared with observation. The measurement of high-status insecurity, this newly-raised concept would be far more difficult without survey. Observation in digital age has its merit for capturing rare events and longitudinal process over large group of people, especially when behavior of different subgroups is being studied. However, high-status insecurity depicts the internal states of people, which couldn’t be obtained without human’s self-reflection.
  
The study is also complimented by observation over social elites’ lowbrow cultural consumption in social media platform. The combined methods bridge the gap between behavioral and cognitive stage, and attempt to find out whether it’s possible to predict people’s inner thought from an innovative phenomenon. 

Obviously, the research design also has some formidable setbacks. First, regarding posts likeed by respondents, it’s quite challenging to categorize the huge amount of posts as lowbrow or highbrow which is crucial for testing the theory. Conducting experiment, on the other hand, such as showing participants identical culture products, might be more efficient in this sense to find out the relations between cultural consumption and high status insecurity. However, one-time experiment cannot capture the process of people’s cognitive change in time, and the limited sample of treatment of cultural products definitely underestimates the diversity of culture. If conducted successfully, the study will pave the way to effectively measuring the heterogeneity of cultural products in digital age, and will welcome the age of quantitative cultural studies. 

Besides, the validity of predicting is hard to evaluate. It’s hard to tell how large the sample being successfully surveyed is required to draw a conclusion. In this case, several remedies can be adopted. First, give respondents enough incentives to increase response rate. Second, adopt ecological momentary assessment to do the survey to prevent internal validity. Third, use other posts the respondents view or like to measure their high-status insecurity, though the method is to be considered.

Survey is not substitute of observation but they complement each other. It’s this combination that advance following studies in the field. If the study harvests good prediction, not only social scientists will better understand people’s cultural consumption and “omnivores”, but lowbrow cultural retailers can also plan better marketing strategies targeting consumers of high status. More importantly, with in-depth knowledge of high-status’s public practice, the society can perform better civil surveillance over the plastic and versatile political actors or those working in public sectors.  

#### References

Hahl, O., Kim, M., & Zuckerman, E. W. (2017). The Authentic Appeal of the Lying Demagogue:   Proclaiming the Deeper Truth About Political Illigitimacy.

Hahl, O., Zuckerman, E. W., & Kim, M. (2017). Why Elites Love Authentic Lowbrow Culture: Overcoming High-Status Denigration with Outsider Art. American Sociological Review, 0003122417710642.

Hofstra, B., Corten, R., van Tubergen, F., & Ellison, N. B. (2017). Sources of Segregation in Social Networks: A Novel Approach Using Facebook. American Sociological Review, 82(3), 625-656.