## Cultural Engagement and Network Embeddedness: An Experiment on Movie Recommendation System

### Introduction
The study is going to examine the causal relationship between cultural engagement and network embeddedness. As many sociologists think, human action is determined by structure which frames both the society’s underlying hierarchy and individuals’ mutual connection. Individuals can be seen as actors positioned in different nodes in a networked society with influence diffusing in vertices. 

Embeddedness is a key feature to depict actor’s relative positions in a network, which can be categorized as structural and cultural embeddedness. Structural embeddedness describes the extent to which an individual is connected in tightly knitted networks. Nodes with high structural embeddedness are mostly linked by strong ties forming closure and clustering within short distances, while those with low structural embeddedness are connected by weak ties stretching far away to different clusters or communities. On the other hand, there is less sociological consensus on cultural embeddedness, but according to most accounts, “culture rests on taken-for-granted, shared understandings that relate to deep-rooted beliefs and assumptions about the world, as well as to normative and procedural agreements that enable interpersonal coordination” (Goldberg, etc., 2016). 

Exemplary studies in this field such as Goldberg’s field experiment found out that people’s positional embeddedness is related to their career achievement, and there was found out to be a tradeoff between the two kinds of embeddedness. Individuals’ attainment is negatively related to structural embeddedness because of the strength of weak ties which helps enhance diffusion of information among brokerage bridging different clusters. On the other hand, achievement is positively related to cultural conformity, for legitimate identities can facilitate coordination between similar actors. 

This study, looking into cultural engagement instead, is going to test the theory reframed by Goldberg in an improved digital-enhanced experiment and inspect whether the theory can be generalized to cultural behavior. The research question is proposed as follow: How is network embeddedness related to cultural engagement? And here are the hypotheses: 1) People with high level of structural embeddedness engage in cultural practices in a lower level. 2) People with high level of cultural embeddedness engage in cultural practices in a higher level. 

### Research Design
The study is to be conducted by a self-built digital experiment. To accomplish the research, a movie recommendation forum will be initiated to recruit respondents. All movie loves can join the forum to browse, like and collect periodically released movie introductions and movie-related information. After the forum have been run for one month and enough participants have been recruited, all participants will be asked to post few-than-200-word movie reviews which can be read and liked by all people in the forum. Each time people post a review they will be rewarded a trivial amount of money as incentive and posts ranking 1% on average each weak will be rewarded an extra larger amount as bonus. 

As for independent variables, we have structural embeddedness and cultural embeddedness. There will be one control group (#1) and three treatment groups (#2-#4) and people will be distributed randomly to the four groups. #1 will be both low in structural and cultural embeddedness, #2 high in structural embeddedness but low in cultural embeddedness, #3 high in both structural and cultural embeddedness and #4 low in structural embeddedness but high in cultural embeddedness. 

To impose the treatment of structural embeddedness, participants will be assigned randomly to either the closure or brokerage positions (high and low structural embeddedness groups) in the network. The network will be created based on typically designed algorithms, where the number of closure and brokerage positions are almost identical. Each node will be linked with five other nodes to control the degree of each node. 

And regarding cultural embeddedness, after the forum has been run for one month, the searching and liking history of each participant will be analyzed and they will be assigned into different genre group. Participants will then be randomly allocated to either high-cultural embeddedness group, where participants are placed in positions with high genre-taste homophily, or low-cultural embeddedness group, where participants are linked to nodes with low homophily. To preclude covariate effects, the genre categorization will not be very specific but just a broad and parallel measurement. Algorithms for distributing the participants will be designed to balance the number of people in the four groups and all participants will be allocated accordingly to different positions in the network. 

Only participants keeping logging in the forum at least once a week will be asked to write reviews and assigned to the network. And dependent variable, cultural engagement, is altogether measured by the time they spend on the forum each week and the effort paid on writing review including the amount of post each participant contribute each week and the average like-rate they get from their posts. Since we are only interested in individual engagement in cultural practices, reposting or copy-pasting the reviews are not allowed to confound the measurement.

After the second month, multivariate regressions will be run over the dependent and independent variables, which also include covariates, such as genre taste. The study expects to see that #2 and #4 will have lower cultural engagement than #1, and #3 will be lower than #2 and #4. 

### Significance of the Study
In order to generalize the conclusion of the study to other real-world cases, many details need special attention to guarantee validity of the experiment. First, to attain construct validity, several variables mentioned above are used to capture people’s cultural engagement, and they will be weighted for observation in the final stage. Rigorous algorithms will be designed to impose treatment on respondents to assure two kinds of embeddedness are distributed almost randomly on different groups of participants. Second, to ensure statistical conclusion validity and take fully advantage of the broad subject pool from the Internet, engrossing contents with authoritative accounts will be posted on the forum and the format’s website will be arranged in an aesthetic way to attract a large amount of participants and preserve consistent participation. Negligible but important covariates (to be considered) will be added to the inference model to draw correct causal relations. Third, the study will be implemented in a rigorous way for internal validity, and contents on the forum will be designed to tailor to the mainstream and popular taste but not targeting marginal groups to represent the general demography of people in the states. 

Experiment study only measures average results and the results can also be different among different people. Thanks to the abundance of potential participants in the digital age, we can measure heterogeneity of treatment effects of different subgroups. In case the results cannot reflect significant behavior of people in the forum, we can ask them to fill in personal demographic information when they register their account and analyze differences of outcomes divided by parameters like gender, racial, age, education and taste. In addition, the record of time of participation and contents users browse can also be considered if hypotheses are failed. The digital-enhanced study compensates the limits of traditional analog experiments which only recruit monotonous undergrad students with limited amount but a large cost. 

It’s hard for traditional experiments to observe the mechanisms which can explain different effects of treatment groups from control groups, but like digital-facilitated ones in the study, they can keep track of the long term process data and test many related treatments. In the study, two treatments are to be exerted on the participants, which might be impossible in analog setting because the limited amount of participants and lack of computational mechanisms. By self-designing an experiment, researchers can keep an eye on what’s happening from the very beginning when the online platform is open and test many variables of interest by modifying the algorithms. Moreover, researchers can compare the early and later stage of different performance or participants, which can probably give implication to how this underlying structure works to diverge people’s cultural practices. The crisscrossing treatment adopted in the study best justifies the merits of digital experiments which give us power to delve into the complex and intricate layer of network embeddedness.

### References
Centola, D. (2010). The spread of behavior in an online social network experiment. science, 329(5996), 1194-1197.
Goldberg, A., Srivastava, S. B., Manian, V. G., Monroe, W., & Potts, C. (2016). Fitting in or standing out? The tradeoffs of structural and cultural embeddedness. American Sociological Review, 81(6), 1190-1222.


