##Asessing the study with Salganik's four principal's of ethical research:

The Montana election experiment clearly violates several tenants of ethical research. Using the ethical framework of Salganik in Bit By Bit, the ethical violations can be applied to delineate the violations.

### 1) Assess this study using Salganik's four principles of ethical research.

####i) Respect for Persons:

  To paraphrase Salganik's definition of Respect for Persons, an experiment must treat and maintain individual autonomy, and two provide additional protections for people with diminished autonomy. In the case of the Montana election experiment, niether respect for individual autonomy nor additional protections were provided for the experiment's subjects. 
  
  Salganik expands the first part of the definition for 'Respect for Persons' by saying that researchers "should if possible, receive informed consent from their participants". In other words, people involved in the experiment should know if they're are being subjected to an experiment, as well as the purpose of that experiment. Using this definition we can say that the Montana election experiment categorically failed to meet this standard because the researchers did not tell the respondents that recieved the mailers that they were subjects of an experiment. Ideally, the researchers would have provided some information about the experiment to the possible participants and given them the opportunity to choose not to participate. 
  
  The experiment failed to meet Salganik's requirement to protect those with diminished autonomy. In the context of the experiment, those with diminished autonomy are individuals whose ability to vote or consume information is hindered by some exogenous variable (exogenous to the experiment). The researchers used a sample based on those who donated to each of the Supreme Court candidate campaigns, which presents a sample bias to those with homes and expendable income, leaving low income families and people out of the experiment. Bias aside, the researchers should have considered that they would not be able to reach this strata of the population because they have even less ability or opportunity to opt-out of the experiment if presented with the choice. 
  
  However, as Salganik explains, these unmet criteria does not make the experiment "ethically impermissable". However, Failing to understand, meet or adhere to ethical frameworks, even if it is one other the Salganik's, opens experiments to new avenues that push experiments beyond ethically acceptable limits. 

####ii) Beneficence:

  Salganik's second tenant of ethical research is Beneficence, or "understanding and improving the risk/benefit profile of your study and then deciding if it strike the right balance". The first part of Beneficence is hippocratic in spirit to avoid causing intentional harm to others for the sake of knowledge. The risk/benefit analysis that Salganik suggests as a framework for assessing ethics of an experiment involves understanding and improving the risks and benefits of the study which necessarily requires substantive expertise in the given research field. It is clear that in the Montana election experiment, the researchers did not consider all risks involved let alone weigh the possability of adverse outcomes happening. Interestingly, Salganik makes an explicit point to say that "...during this process researchers need to keep in mind the impact of their work not just on participants, but also on non-participants and social systems." The latter part about impact on social systems can be extended to mean things like the right to privacy in the case of the Montana election experiment. Clearly, the Stanford and Dartmouth researchers did not minimize the risky behavior of the expeirment and its impact on social constructs. Furthermore, given that both researchers are well educated and subject matter experts, they should have been able to assess whether or not their experiment threatened some social construct or group. From a purely academic standpoint the experiment makes sense, but as Salganik suggests the researchers may not have consulted people outside of academia on whether this experiment could potentially violate some social construct.

####iii) Justice:

  Justice addresses the "distribution of the burdens and benefits of research". Essenitally, Salganik uses this definition of justice to avoid people using academia as a way of substantiating unethical behavior. To paraphrase Salganik, justice in research should not be aimed to benefit a group in society at the cost of diminishing another group. Here, Salganik's definition echos the spirit of Respect for Persons, especially those with diminished autonomy. Researchers should both protect vulnerable populations from harm, but also provide access to research so that those same vulnerable populations could gain from the research. The Montana election experiment failed to meet the justice principle of ethical resaerch in that it sampled only people who had expendable income, as well as were accessible by mail. The former is an important aspect to the experiment because the addresses were taken from a list of donors and higher income people are morely likely to have money to donate, while poorer people have less money and are therefore less likely to donate. Essenitally, this would experiment the voting behavior of higher income people. Using Salganik's definition of justice, it would provide an unfair distribution of benefits to wealthier people. Accessability also becomes a factor in this experiment because Montanan is a large state, with a majority of towns and populations being rural. Rurality can make access to mail or other forms of communications difficult, once again the experiment would benefit urban and suburban peoples. Finally, because lower income people are more to share living spaces or move more frequently it would be much harder to get their information or collect data from them. These points illustrate the ethical flaws in the Montana election experiment because if politicians were to use the research to win elections they would do so by leveraging the behavior of wealthier suburban and urban individuals, which is not representative of the population.

####iv) Respect of law and public interest:

  An experiment's respect for law and public interest is closely tied to the principle of beneficene, and in my own opinion to the principle of justice as well. The principle of respect for law and public interest has two components: one, Compliance, and two, Transparency-based Accountability. The former component requires that "researchers attempt to identify and obey relevant laws, contracts and terms of service". In reading the court decision written by the Commissioner of Political Practices of the State of Montana, Johnathan Motl wrote, we see that the law was not complied with. The determinition by Motl cites that "Stanford, Dartmouth and its researchers did not register, report or disclose with the COPP the value of the independent expenditures made in the 2015 Montana Supereme Court Justice elections" (McCulloch v. Stanford and Dartmouth, p.21). While the research had an internal logic that may have benefitted society, it was not communicated with the proper authorities in Montana, thus violating the latter component of Salganik's fourth principal of ethical research. These componennts of complaince and transparency are symbiotic in that if the researchers had complied with the appropraite laws and statues they would have also provided transparency, while if they had communicated with the proper authorities like the COPP they would have guided them on ways to be compliant. 

### 2) Assume that the mailers were sent to a random sample of voters: under what conditions might this mailing have altered the outcome of the Supreme Court Justice election?

  Replacing the existing sampling strategy with a random sampling strategy could have several different effects on the outcome of the Supereme Court Justice Election. First, assuming they are using purely random sampling methods (i.e. not weighted sampling methods), the researchers would be more likely to get an biased sample that lean towards republican. This is made evident by the presidential election results by county in the 2016 presidential race ([2016 Montana Presidential Election results](https://www.politico.com/2016-election/results/map/president/montana/)), showing that only 6 counties voted democratic. Given this and the assumption of a successful randomization of subjects, this could potentially sway the election in favor of the more conservative candidate, especially because they associated each candidate with the larger party leader (i.e. Obama for Democrats and Romney for Republicans). The flyers also may have prompted unlikely voters to go out and vote, which of course was the intent of the experiment, but nonetheless could sway the election in a certain direction (most likely to the right). 

### 3)In fact, the mailers were not sent to a random sample of voters. According to a report by Jeremy Johnson (a political scientists who assisted in the investigation), mailers "were sent to 64,265 voters identified as likely liberal to centrist leaning in Democratic leaning precincts and 39,515 voters identified as conservative to centrist in Republican leaning precincts. The researchers justified the disparity between Democratic and Republican numbers on grounds that they anticipated turnout to be significantly lower among Democratic voters." Does this change your assessment of the research design? If so, how?

  The disparity between the amount of mailers sent to democrats and republicans can be a justified sampling strategy simply because in a state like Montana where a majority of counties are republican, it would make sense to use a weighted sample or some other sampling method that would adjust for the majoriting of the state being majority Republican (i.e. clustering, quota sampling, probability-proportaitonal to size sampling). However, this does not make the experiment ethically justified. The attempt to justify the strategy by claiming the Democratic voters were less likely to turn out implies that they were trying to influence the election in the first place. Second, if the disparity between mailers was intentional and not due to weighted sampling strategy, this would present a bias in their result but more importantly violate the tenants of benefinence and respect of law and public interest. For the former tenant, beneficence, the researcher may not necessairly agree with republicas but it is not grounds to skew the benefits and costs of an experiment. The latter tenant, respect for law is violated because the mailer then becomes a method of promoting one candidate over another without the consent of the candidate or meeting the statutes necessary by the Montana state government to participate. Despite the intentions, the experiment did benefit candidates which is both unethical and bad design. 

### 4) In response to the investigation, the researchers said that they picked this election in part because "neither judicial race had been closely contested in the primary. Based on an analysis of the 2014 primary election results in the context of previous Montana judicial elections, the researchers determined that the research study as designed would not change the outcome of either contest." Does this change your assessment of the research? If so, how?

  No, this does not change my assessment of the research design. First, the researchers cannot attest to the counter-factual. Essenitally, the researchers cannot attest that the voting turnout would be the same had they not sent out the flyers in the first place. Second, their justification still violates the spirit of Salganik's four principals of ethical research in that it does not protect individual autonomy, is not beneficent, does not distrbute justice fairly and ultimately does not respect the law. Justifying present and future actions based on past behavior is ethically dubious and can lead to dangerous precedent. 

### 5) In fact, the election turned out to be not particularly close. Does this change your assessment of the research? If so, how?

  Despite the fact that the outcome of the election was not close does not justify the experiment. First, the researchers are justifying their results ex-post but the issue is they cannot distinguish the causal mechanisms of the results. Particularly for the second Supreme Court justice vote. Three of Four justices were represented as being conservative, identifying closely to Mitt Romney, however, Mike Wheat stood as the sole liberal candidate. Researchers cannot know if their flyer motivated the democratic base in Montana to vote for that candidate. No matter what the results and turnout of the electin were, it still stands that the researchers are failing to provide equal distribution of burdens and benefits and failing to respect the laws that uphold the elections. 

### 6) One of the principal investigators for the Montana election study (Adam Bonica) is also the co-founder of CrowdPAC, a for-profit company which "calculates objective scores for political candidates showing their overall political position" using, in part, the same data used to score the judicial candidates in Montana. While a source of objective information for voters to make decisions about candidates, CrowdPAC also provides tools to organize activist communities and fund political campaigns (all for a fee). Does this change your assessment of the research? If so, how?

  No, if anything sourcing information from a for profit company makes the experiment even more unethical. For profit companies exist to suit the needs of their client and not to benefit social good. Using this data to create the spectrum of political affiliations can introduce even more bias when paired with the sampling strategy and have far more unintended consequences on the election. Using this data primarily violates the principle of justice because, as a for-profit firm, CrowdPAC is not necessarily beholden to the social good but rather the person paying for the data and therefore is not worried about the bias, but the possibly biased data is being used by a not-for-profit group in an expeirment. Justice is violated because it could unfairly benefit one party or candidate based on who paid for the original research. 

### 7) What, if anything, would you have done differently if you were the principal investigators? How would you have designed the study if you were interested in exploring whether additional information increases voter turnout in nonpartisan races?

  If I were the principal researcher in the Montana election experiment, I would have first registered and gained the approcal of state election committees. If the principal researchers had registered with the state to gain their consent, I believe many of the ethical issues that the expeirment faced would have been resovled. As Salganik notes part of assessing the ethics of an experiment requires substantive knowledge of a subject area. While political scientifist at Dartmouth and Stanford certainely are qualified to run an experiment, they may have missed the minutia or nuances of elections in Montana, which is where registering with election boards could have helped. Second, I would have asked for the consent of participants. Third, I would have improved the sampling strategy. As noted before, the subjects were sampled from a donor databae. I think its safe to assume that if you're donating to a political party or person running for election you are more than likely to vote and that sampling from those who donated and running the experiment would not shed much insight into voter behavior. Rather, I would find another source such as voter registration records to identify a wider sample of people. The source of the sampling method matters greatly for meeting the justice requirement for ethical research. If done properly, even adjusting for the skewed distrubution of political affiliations, can result in a greater distributon of benefits and cost. This becomes even more powerful by using sampling methods like stratification to understand how things lke income, race and gender can influence voter activity. I would avoid using images like the one used in the experiment. The image on the card did not actually delineate actual campaign issues but simply associated the presidential candidate's and position on issues with the supremem court candidate. For example, the candidate could be against raising taxes but because they are visually associated with President Obama, the voter could take that to mean the candidate is also in favor of raising taxes. Though it is a crude and over generalized example it illustrates the bias of the image. If the researchers really wanted to communicate issues to test voter behavior they should have chosen another format or medium. Finally, I would avoid using the state seal. Using the state seal can lead the voter to actions under false pretenses, and it implies that the state has approved the messaging of the material. 

