# Proposal for a Survey Study on the Truth Condition of Generic Statements and the Alternative Set Theory 
Xiuyuan Zhang

## Research Question
Generic statements are commonly used in people's daily life as a way to convey facts about certain objects and their unique features. When people hear a speaker spoke about a kind of subject with a specific feature in a generic way, the likelihood for the audience to think that this feature applies to most of the kind is high (1).  "Mosquitoes carry malaria", "Birds lay eggs", and "Tigers are carnivores" are examples of generic statements. While each of these three statements passes as a fact by the general public, the first two statements carry peculiarities under close examination. According to a 2015 review by the CDC on *Anopheles Mosquitoes*, Out of 3500 species of mosquitoes, only the female of 30 - 40 species transmit human malaria (2). However, people believes that most of mosquitoes carry malaria despite the evidence says otherwise. Similarly, only adult female birds lay eggs instead of any bird, yet "birds lay eggs" are received as a generic statement. This discrepancy between what people accept as true statements and the actual prevalence rate of the said feature proposes many interesting studies and hint on some unfortunate consequences. For instance, an inaccurate generic statement about a particular group of people may lead to wrong stereotypes about that group and the said group of people being treated unfairly. In this proposal, the focus will be the following two questions: Is the evaluation and further acceptance of generic statements for certain objects affected by the audience's baseline knowledge of the said object? How immutable is the baseline knowledge once established?

## Experiment Design
In order to evaluate people's response to a given generic statement, this study introduces participants a novel (made-up) object, Zorches, and gives them some information about this object that is related to three different groups of familiar objects. This study uses computer-administered survey research design. The participants of this study will be recruited through Amazon Mechanical Turk(MTurk). Participants will be grouped into four different categories based on their education background: below high school, high school, college, graduate studies. The idea is to test whether one's response to generic statement is correlated to one's education background and to control for a representative sample of the general public. While 200 people will be our ideal participant size, but considering that we might not be able to get an evenly distributed participants pool with regard to our four education levels, having another 40 people will allow some adjustment in the size of the four groups and minimize the negative impact of having non-representative data.Thus, 240 people in total will be recruited, 80 participants for the first part of the study and 160 participants for the second part of the study. 

The funding of this study is supported by the Communicate and Learning Lab at the University of Chicago as a sub-project to study human stereotyping mechanism. This survey study is of two parts. The survey questions are shown in the Appendix of this proposal.
### Part 1
The first part of the study is between-subject. It asks 80 participants to fill a Google form questionnaire to self-report their education level, gender, race and they are asked to each answer one question (see Appendix). The goal of the first part is to establish a baseline prevalence rate of each kind of familiar object for participants. This will be the control group data that can be used to compare to the prevalence rate of a novel object that is introduced in the second part of the study.
### Part 2
The second part of the study is between-subject in regard to three distinct groups of similar objects, and within-subject in regard to two questions that will be sent to them sequentially. This study recruits participants using MTurk and then employ the method of ecological momentary assessment(EMA) once the participant sign up for the experiment through MTurk. Similar to the first part of this study, participants will be asked to first fill out a brief questionnaire to self-report their education level, gender, and race. They will be further asked to type in their phone number if they are willing to participate in the study. After getting participants' consent, this study uses EMA to facilitate an environment for researchers to conduct a miniature longitudinal study and ask a sequence of two questions to the same participant while tracking their potential attitude change. The participants in this part of the study will be asked two questions (see Appendix), the second question being sent seven days later from the first. The participants will be introduced to a novel object with a piece of information that is designed to tell the participant some feature of this novel object in an indirect way. Then participants will be asked a question along with that introduction in part two. After a seven day intermission period, the participants will be asked to evaluate whether a given generic statement on the novel subject is true or false.

### Possible Implications 
If the participants' evaluation of the novel object is similar to their evaluation of the given category of familiar objects, then there is a correlation between participants' baseline knowledge and their knowledge of the novel object. Furthermore, if participants' true/false response of the generic statement reflect their evaluation on the percentage of Zorches' diet based on their given similarity groups, it indicates a positive correlation between the acceptance of generic statement's truth condition and the prevalence rate of the feature for the novel object. Lastly, if after several days of being occupied by their own activities, when asked about this novel object, their evaluations of the generic statement reflect the response in conjunction with their initial response, it suggests a resilience of the baseline knowledge of this novel object despite many other events the participants have experienced.

## Digitally-Enhanced Survey Method
As M. Salganik mentions in his book *Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age*, contemporary social scientists are walking into a new era of survey studies(3). The rapid development of technology has given researchers an opportunity to conduct surveys with less cost and broader reach of participants. This proposed study takes advantage of the computer-administered questionnaire to recruit more participants in other states rather than only locally. This new digital age allows researchers to be able to conduct their research on a national stage and produce more representative observations from their data, given their potentially limited funding and the cost of cross-states in-person interviews. While running an experiment through MTurk and implement an app that asks questions on the participants' phone requires financial investment and time commitment, the cost is comparatively less than the cost of traveling to different states twice and interviewing people.
 
Moreover, part 2 of this study implements the method of EMA. Using EMA allows researchers to track the same participants' response to related questions with a timed intermission. In this study, EMA facilitates an environment where the time interval in which participants receive the second question is timed so that participants receive enough noise (other inputs from their daily life that are irrelevant with the question) before answering the second question that test the resilience of a newly-formed stereotype. EMA further enhances the accuracy of participants's answer by providing their immediate response at a specific and designed time. 

## Survey Study vs. Observational Study
While there may be a common consensus that the idea of "big data" is more relevant to observational studies, there is room for survey studies to prosper using methods developed in the age of "big data." The proposed survey study is such a case. As M. Salganik mentions in *Bit by Bit*, asking questions provides an angle for researchers to evaluate "the internal state of human beings(4)." While to know completely what human beings are thinking internally is a difficult task, survey studies have the ability to record and quantify one aspect of people's mental activities. Since the proposed study requires researchers to record people's direct response to certain questions, survey study is a better research method to employ than observational study. Survey research design gives space for researchers to ask questions of interests as well as recording participants' response. In comparison to the appreciated non-reactive aspect of observational studies, the design of this study is to interact with its participants and evaluate their reaction, especially because the study is measuring how different prompts can affect people's internal state (their respective alternative sets) differently. 

## Potential Errors and Solutions
For this survey study to be representative, the participant body should represent the composition of a general public. More specifically, it should include participants from different education background: below high school, high school, college level, and higher than college level. One potential error of this study may be representation error. During the recruitment stage of this study, it is possible that there is a skewed distribution of participants' education level. The platform of MTurk attracts a certain group of people, perhaps in higher education and are somewhat tech-literate. This may cause data sparsity for certain education levels. There are three ways to minimize the effect of this potential problem. First, as mentioned in the study plan part of this proposal, this study plans to recruit 40 more participants in case the original 200 participants have an extremely skewed distribution of education backgrounds. Secondly, since the participants are asked in the initial questionnaire about their education level, this record can be used after the experiment to weigh different education levels. Thirdly, based on the amount of the funding, one can collect more evidence in person to supplement the online questionnaires; or, to reconstruct the premise of this study as to have the premise of the study be consistent and accurate with the data collected.

Another potential representation error is that the participants of part 2 of the study may drop out of the experiment after answering the first question, which leaves the second question to have no response. This effect of this problem can be minimized by promising participants monetary reward upon completion of the second question. The participants will receive 1/10 of their monetary reward once they filled out the questionnaire, and will receive the 9/10 of their reward after they reply to the second question.


## Conclusion
The result of this survey study will be used to plan future studies on generic statement and its influence by individuals' baseline knowledge. This study tested whether human beings, when introduced a novel object along with several familiar objects that share similar features, apply the common feature of familiar objects to the novel object, despite the lack of concrete evidence. This process mimics the way in which young children learn about the world around them and form their understandings of the objects in their environment. Furthermore, this study attempts to record the formation of an individual's acceptance of generic statements, speaking to the less reliable or factual aspect of generic statements. This study is only a beginning attempt to tackle a series of questions centered around human stereotype, its formation and its strength. Once researchers have a better understanding of generic statement, it may, in turn, be used to study how to reduce people's stereotypes in the society. 


## Reference
1. Cimpian, Andrei, Amanda C. Brandone, and Susan A. Gelman. "Generic statements require little evidence for acceptance but have powerful implications." *Cognitive science* 34, no. 8 (2010): 1452-1482.
2. "Anopheles Mosquitoes." Center for Disease Control and Prevention. October 21, 2015. Accessed October 22, 2017. https://www.cdc.gov/malaria/about/biology/mosquitoes/.
3. Salganik, Matthew J. "Bit by Bit." Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Accessed October 22, 2017. http://www.bitbybitbook.com/.
4. Salganik, Matthew J. "Bit by Bit." Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Accessed October 22, 2017. http://www.bitbybitbook.com/.

## Appendix
### Sample Questions
The participants from part 1 of the study will be asked to type a number(one or two digit) in response to any one of the following question:
	
	1. What percentage of tigers' diet do you think is animal-based?
	2. What percentage of lions' diet do you think is animal-based
	3. What percentage of cheetahs' diet do you think is animal-based?
	4. What percentage of birds' diet do you think is animal-based?
	5. What percentage of pigs' diet do you think is animal-based?
	6. What percentage of mice's diet do you think is animal-based?
	7. What percentage of rabbit's diet do you think is animal-based?
	8. What percentage of cows' diet do you think is animal-based?
	9. What percentage of giraffes' diet do you think is animal-based? 

The participants from part 2 of the study will be introduced to an animal named Zorches (the novel object), given some information about Zorches and asked to type a type(one or two digit) in response to the question listed below:
	
	1. Zorches is similar to tigers, cheetahs, and lions. What percentage of zorches' diet do you think is animal-based?
	2. Zorches is similar to birds, pigs and mice. What percentage of zorches' diet do you think is animal-based?
	3. Zorches is similar to rabbits, cows, and giraffes. What percentage of zorches' diet do you think is animal-based?

After seven days, the participants will be asked the same question without a prompt and be instructed to type T(for True) or F(for False): 
	
	Consider this statement: 
		Zorches eat meat.
	Is this statement true or false?