# On the Ethics of 2014 Montana Flyer Project

Xiuyuan Zhang

**1. Assess this study using Salganik's four principles of ethical research. (Respect for persons, beneficence, justice, respect for law and public interest)**

A closer look on the design of the 2014 Montana Flyer Project and the conduct of the political scientists are necessary to determine whether they have violate the four basic principles of ethical research that M. Salganik has summarized in his book, *Bit by Bit*. 
### Beneficence
From information given by the assignment prompt, the scientists' objective of this field experiment is "to measure whether voters who are given more information are more likely to vote." This goal in itself, attempting to find a positive correlation between information given and voter turnout, seems to be beneficent at first sight. According to M. Salganik, "Beneficence is an obligation that researchers have to participants, and it involves two parts：1)do not harm and 2)maximize possible benefits and minimize possible harms." One can argue that the researchers did perform an experiment where 1) they did not physically harm the participants or 2) maximized the benefit of the experiment by setting its goal as pursuing a healthy democracy that not only assumes the right to votes for citizens but also expects its citizens fulfilling their civic duty (such as voting); it arguably also minimizes the harm by involving only a certain number of participants instead of the entire population and also chose a judicial race that was predicted to not be a close race so that the experiment would not actually influence the result of the race. Thus, in the current state of low voter turnout for many races across from local to national level, a research with limited number of participants conducted to study ways in which voter turnout can be improved seem to advocate for such an experiment to take place. 

### Respect for Persons
However, it is not sufficient for a field experiment to have beneficence alone. As ethical researchers, these political scientists are also under examination for any violation of criteria such as respect for persons, justice, and respect for law and public interest. Since a field experiment inherently involves influencing people's lives in one way or another, scientists who conduct this type of research are expected to respect participants as autonomous persons. Specifically, scientists should not conduct experiments where people's decision on their own lives are influenced by these scientists without participants' formal consents. In the 2014 Montana Flyer case, the scientists have first sent flyers to chosen participants' homes without their consent. While one can argue that these people can potentially receive campaign flyers from different candidates and this mailer should be no different, this flyer is different from other actual flyers in nature since this mailer should not have the objective of influencing people's decision without their consent. These people who live in their own homes should have given the right to refuse such a mailer to be sent to them. Why is such a right to refuse so important? Because once one saw the flyer, one's decision might already be influenced, and seeing a brief explanatory line about how this flyer is part of an experiment may not be able to undo the "damage(for lack of a better word)" that is done. These people should have been given the chance to consent to this study. This also brings us to the second point, which is that as much as there is a line in the flyer that briefly explain the intent of this mailer, it is not clear from the participants' perspective that this short explanation is informative enough. This also violates the principle to have respect for persons.) 

It is especially noteworthy, from the COPP report, that this experiment is not approved by either the Stanford IRB or the Dartmouth IRB. While the Dartmouth IRB reviewed a pilot study of this experiment which is in nature and research method different from the 2014 Montana Flyer Project, the researchers in Stanford did not even get permission from their IRB. As it has been emphasized many times, the IRB exists so that experiments done with human subjects should be examined closely to ensure these subjects are treated with respect. In this case, since the IRB did not even give these researchers permission and the researchers felt comfortable enough to run this experiment without IRB's approval, speaks to the problematic nature of this experiment in respect to its lack of respect for persons.

### Justice
The justice, defined in *Bit by Bit*, behind this experiment can be evaluated from two different perspectives. On the one hand, it is true that one can argue that this experiment targeted participants with a specific party affiliation or participants that are known to be at a state where they are unlikely to vote since the sample of this experiment was not chosen through complete randomized sampling. The party that is specifically targeted to not receive as much information may potentially be put into jeopardy since, if in the case that this information actually influenced the race result, people from the other party have to endure a consequence that is through no fault of their own but rather researchers' manipulation. On the other hand, one can argue that first this experiment has chosen the amount of participants and the location of this race and the race itself to ensure there to be no such potential jeopardy as mentioned above. Moreover, these people who do not vote are not considered as "vulnerable people" that should be protected from researchers. One can even argue that researchers have provided people access to vote in the race by given them more information, and thus helped these people to fulfill their civic duty. It seems that researchers could have considered the risks and benefits of this research and tried to distribute them fairly.

Another aspect of this research that can potentially violate this principle is that people who participated in this research is also not compensated in any way.

### Respect for the Law and Public Interest
In the McCulloch v. Stanford and Dartmouth case, the decision is that sufficient facts demonstrate a violation of Montana's campaign practice laws on Stanford and Dartmouth's part. As it is shown by the court decision with much clarity, this experiment violated the law, which in turn can hardly be argued as researchers having respect for the law. These researchers, though with some explanation, used the Montana State Seal that has a visual influence on voters' psychology, and they have also chosen a title and design for their mailer that looked as if it comes from an official channel from the Montana state. This design in itself is deceptive, and as it is mentioned in the "Respect for Persons" section, it is not informative enough to have one line explaining the invalidity of such a design since the impact on voters who seen it has already been made. Moreover, one can argue that, although the right to vote is not explicitly stated in the Constitution, the researchers nevertheless did not fully respect each citizen's choice to vote because they interfered with a citizen's individual decision to vote or not vote. This choice to vote or not vote, regardless of party affiliation, belongs to each individual and it is in public's interest to not have this choice been decided for them by a third party. This race is supposed to non-partisan and the researchers' action to provide information actually jeopardize the goal of the race, since the descriptive information they provide may also bring voters to stand with candidates from their own parties, turning this race to a partisan race.

**2. Assume that the mailers were sent to a random sample of voters: under what conditions might this mailing have altered the outcome of the Supreme Court Justice election?**

The possible cases are: 1）voters affiliated with a certain party after seeing the mailer reconsider their choice to vote for a certain judge. Instead of voting for a judge that they choose when they are ignorant of the candidates party affiliation, they chose a candidate that is from their party solely based on that. This would have altered the outcome of the elections. 2) if the mailers were sent to a random sample of voters, and voters from a certain political ideology or party affiliation are known to have less voter turnout, and this information indeed encouraged them to go out and vote, the researchers would consequently campaigned for those beneficiary parties. While it is ideal that people go out and vote, the researchers actions should not be the one that is responsible for such a result. The election result in this case would also deviates from what would happen in a natural course of political process.

**3. In fact, the mailers were not sent to a random sample of voters. Does this change your assessment of the research design? If so, how?**

No，it does not change my assessment but rather further supports my assessment. What the researchers did, by chose twice as much voters from a certain party affiliation than another one based on their previous voter turnout, is manipulating the result of an election. As I said in the previous section, 1) this descriptive information is not so innocent as to not inform voters of candidates' ideological leaning or trigger voters loyalty to their parties so that this race become partisan, and 2) it risks that the researchers may interfere with an election by targeting more people that are known to have a lower rate of voter turnout. An academic research should not interfere with a judicial election.

**4. the researchers determined that the research study as designed would not change the outcome of either contest." Does this change your assessment of the research? If so, how?**

No, as I already am aware of this information when writing about the first section of this assignment (by reading the prompt and the supplementary information.) As I have said previously, I think that the researchers, in this specific aspect, have evaluated fairly in terms of the "Beneficence" principle. One can argue that the researchers did perform an experiment where 1) they did not physically harm the participants or 2) maximized the benefit of the experiment by setting its goal as pursuing a healthy democracy that not only assumes the right to votes for citizens but also expects its citizens fulfilling their civic duty (such as voting); it arguably also minimizes the harm by involving only a certain number of participants instead of the entire population and also chose a judicial race that was predicted to not be a close race so that the experiment would not actually influence the result of the race. 

Just as there are four principles instead of one principle for conducting an ethical research, having met the requirement for "Beneficence" does not mean it necessarily followed other principles, such as "Respect for the law and public interest." 

**5. In fact, the election turned out to be not particularly close. Does this change your assessment of the research? If so, how?**

No, it does not. The four principles for conducting an ethical research is not for an after-fact evaluation of an already-conducted research but rather a rubric for researchers to follow so that they can conduct their research ethically. I stand by my evaluation and believe that this conduct by these researchers should not be encouraged or tolerated. To say that based on the result of a rule-breaking experiment that it should be judged as acceptable is equivalent to saying that texting while driving or not wearing seatbelt while driving are acceptable behaviors until one get into an accident and cause one's own life or other peoples' lives. Academic research should follow rules that set for them instead of disregarding them so as to not cause ireverseble consequences.

**6. CrowdPAC, a for-profit company which "calculates objective scores for political candidates showing their overall political position" using, in part, the same data used to score the judicial candidates in Montana. Does this change your assessment of the research? If so, how?**

No, it does not change my assessment since my assessment of the research already is that this research is violated the principles of ethical research and it should not have been permitted to be actually implemented. 

However, it does provide additional information that shed light on the potentially problematic ethical conducts of academic researchers who have their own for-profit companies. It should be investigated whether CrowdPac benefited financially or Dr. Bonica has benefited personally from this research. If so, this violates the very foundation of an academic research since there may be a conflict of interest for Dr. Bonica and that is beyond ethical concerns toward participants. 

**7. What, if anything, would you have done differently if you were the principal investigators? How would you have designed the study if you were interested in exploring whether additional information increases voter turnout in nonpartisan races?**

I would have gained participants consent before sending them a mailer, asking them whether they consent to participate in a study that will provide them information on the ideological leaning of candidates in an upcoming non-partisan race. I think that this step can be done by covering the original mailer in a bigger envelope that contains above mentioned information. It can give potential participants additional instruction on opening the mailer if they chose to participate. Then researchers can do a follow-up survey on whether the participants choose to participate or not. As much as this will cost more time and potentially more money, it is also the ethical way of conducting a field research on human subjects. 

Moreover, I would also reconstruct the operationalized concept of "additional information." Instead of providing information that may lead voters to have a partisan judgment on candidates in a non-partisan race, I would choose to provide information on the history of the candidates, such as what cases were they involved in and what stands have they taken in the past in regard to controversial topics. I would also do a random sampling to compare the voter turnout with a control group to monitor rather than sample a certain amount of voters from specific party or political leanings. I would also make sure to be aware of the laws in regard to the race that I am interested in studying and making sure that the way the experiment is designed by no ways interfere with the election. 

Last but not least, I would like to remind myself and my fellow researchers that, although seeking knowledge, at times, are considered as an noble end, it should not be used as a shield or excuse by researchers to overlook the law or the interest of the public. While acknowledging that the rules and regulations make research in political science difficult, academics should also be aware that it is precisely the stability provided by a functional and lawful society that allows academics to conduct their research. Thus, it is important to not think that one's own judgement or a small group's collective judgment is higher than the ethical principles that are established to protect researchers from unintentionally harm human subjects or violate laws of a functional society.




