# Proposing an Experiment on the Possibility and Potential Cause for One to Update One's False Beliefs

Xiuyuan Zhang

## Research Question
Human beings have certain beliefs of the world that they live in, ranging from the sun rises from the east, mosquitoes carry malaria, to water is essential to life. These beliefs, on the one hand, provide human beings a stable structure within with they plan their daily activities; on the other hand, if these beliefs do not have sound scientific evidence as support, they may strengthen the propagation of misconceptions. In this proposal, an experiment is proposed to test the resilience of people's prior beliefs on the popular saying of "Eight glasses of water a day" by measuring whether this belief can be updated when people are given more information, directly pointing out the falsehood of such a statement. Furthermore, whether the source of a given information affects the sufficiency for one to change their belief on a certain subject?

## Research Plan
This study is a randomized controlled experiment, with between-subject design, and takes the form of a digital field experiment. First, it plans to use Amazon Mechanical Turk(MTurk) to recruit 400 participants from the age 22 to 40. The qualified participants will then be asked to fill out a questionnaire on MTurk that collects information on their gender(M or F), their phone number, and their education background (4 options): high school, college, graduate school, or other: please specify. The participants then will be temporarily grouped based on their education backgrounds. Once the recruitment and initial categorization of participants are complete, these participants from these four different education background groups will be randomly assigned to 3 treatment groups and 1 control group, with the goal that there is a similar number of participants from each category in the treatment groups and the control group. The three treatments are constructed to represent information given by an authority(in terms of credential and of fame) and one's peers: a scientific literature(treatment 1), a respected media outlet(treatment 2), a Facebook friend(treatment 3).

Participants from the three treatments will receive one of the following prompt prior to answer a true or false question via text message: 

1. According to a study published in *American Journal of Physiology*, titled *“Drink at least eight glasses of water a day.” Really? Is there scientific evidence for “8 × 8”?*, there is no scientific evidence supporting the statement "Drink at least eight glasses of water a day." [1]
2. According to an article published in *The New York Times*, titled *No, You Do Not Have to Drink 8 Glasses of Water a Day*, there is no scientific evidence supporting the statement "Drink at least eight glasses of water a day." [2]
3. While surfing Facebook, you saw your friend made the following post:"There is no scientific evidence supporting the statement "Drink at least eight glasses of water a day."

After treatments are delivered, all participants(in both treatment and control groups) will be shown the following instruction via text message:

	Evaluate the following statement, please reply the letter T for True or the letter F for False:
		Eight glasses of water daily are needed to maintain health.

Once all reply are gathered, the rate of "true" reply over all replies, Rate(T/T+F), for various conditions(listed below) are calculated. The difference between Rate(T/T+F) of treatment groups and Rate(T/T+F) of treatment groups is used to measure the change of participants' prior belief. These below are some of the meaningful comparisons to be made and examined with the data collected (in cases where the distribution of the sub-groups are uneven, the result will be weighted according to the distribution): 

1. Rate(T/T+F) of the control group vs. Rate(T/T+F) of all treatment groups, collectively.
2. Rate(T/T+F) of the control group vs. Rate(T/T+F) of each of the treatment groups, respectively.
3. Rate(T/T+F) of each of the treatment groups in comparison to each other.
4. Rate(T/T+F) across different education backgrounds, gender, and age within each group (3 treatment, 1 control).

While the comparison between Rate(T/T+F)of the control group and the Rate(T/T+F) of all treatment groups together can reveals a general trend in terms of whether some given information can change participants' prior beliefs on a given statement, the comparison within smaller subgroups of the treatment group with themselves as well as with the control group can potential uncover the heterogeneity of treatment effects on different education backgrounds, genders, and ages as well as the different effect of three different treatment. If the difference between Rate(T/T+F) of control group and other treatment groups is negative across different treatment groups, it suggests that one's belief on a commonly accepted statement can be updated through additional information. Moreover, if there is a distinction of values between different education background, gender, and age, respectively, it suggests potential correlation between these sub-groups and people's resilience of beliefs.

Upon finishing the initial questionnaire, the participants will receive a 20 cents payment and are notified that they will receive another 80 cents when they reply the question that will be sent within a week. The total cost of this experiment will be 400 dollars and the funding of this experiment comes from the Communication and Learning Lab at The University of Chicago.

## Assessment of the Experimental Design
The aforementioned experiment takes advantage of the digital age to study the potential cause of belief changes in participants. In contrast to traditional psychology experiments that has a small participant pool(20 - 50), difficult recruiting process, and high cost of operation, the current study uses a computationally-enhanced method to recruit a large number of participants (400) and to deliver the treatment via text. 

Due the randomization of participants, this experiment allows researchers to minimize the effect of confounders (gender, age, or educational background) that could occur in a traditional not-randomized experiment and ensure a fair comparison between the control group and the treatment group. This experiment is set out to observe whether the delivery of treatment, more specifically, three different treatments, affect people's prior belief. This effect is measured by participants' response to a True/False evaluation after given the treatment against participants' response to a True/False evaluation in the control group. Having a randomized controlled experiment gives the researcher the opportunity to eliminate confounders. It thus increases both the construct validity and the internal validity of this experiment. 

Since the initial questionnaire has collected information on participants education backgrounds, gender, and age, it allows the researcher to have pre-treatment information, which distinguishes participants from each other rather than treats them as "indistinguishable widgets."[3] This distinction can be further used to identify heterogeneity within sub-groups of participants once the data post-treatment is collected. Moreover, having background information on participants helps the researcher to monitor any possible confounders that might interfere with the experiment result. 

In order to uncover any heterogeneity of treatment within people with different education backgrounds, the participants of this experiment includes not only people with different education background but also 2 different age groups and genders. The data collected through this experiment can be used to analyze heterogeneity from three different aspects(education backgrounds, age, and gender) across three different treatment groups, respectively. This analysis can help researchers locate whether certain gender/age/education background is more susceptible to a certain treatment (and to treatment in general.) 

This experiment design also allows the opportunity to study the possible mechanism behind participant's belief changes with the three different treatment groups. By measuring the difference among three different outlets of an identical information, it helps researcher get closer to answer the question: what information is more acceptable to participants for them to change their beliefs on a given statement (authority, credibility, and/or familiarity)? This experiment, by itself, is not sufficient enough to actually identify the mechanism behind one's belief change, but it shed some light on possible factors that can be further investigated in future studies.   

Another shortcoming of this experiment is its trade-off between internal validity and external validity. Although the size of participants for this experiment is comparatively larger than a traditional lab experiment (20 - 50 participants), it can still benefit from a later participant pool in the future as well as a more representative population. A larger size of participants will strengthen the external validity of this experiment as well as allowing researchers to post more than one question to the treatment group. Using one specific question in the experiment allows the researcher to have variations on the treatments and observe the nuanced difference within treatments, yet one question by itself is not generalizable. 

Moreover, as mentioned in the research plan, the participants age are capped with a lower bound of 22 and upper bound of 40 in accordance to the pool of potential participants recruited through MTurk so as to ensure internal validity. While there is a strong internal validity, because using MTurk to recruit participants have already excluded people who are not tech-literate, have no need of extra income, or older, the participants are not very representative of the general public. This lack of external validity due to the non-representative nature of MTurk comes with this digitally-enhanced method of recruitment. To minimize the effect of this problem, there should be a future study that uses the exact experiment method except a different recruiting process so as to recruit more representative participants. 

## Conclusion

This experiment gives the researcher an opportunity to examine the possible cause behind people updating their beliefs on a given subject, when provided with some additional information. Walking into the new era of digital field experiment, this experiment benefits largely from crowdsourcing. While this experiment only examines a facet of the large question: what causes people to change their beliefs, its results and its limitation together set the ground for further research projects to broad their scope in regard to a more-representative sample and more testing questions. 

## Reference
1. Valtin, Heinz. "“Drink at least eight glasses of water a day.” Really? Is there scientific evidence for “8× 8”?." *American Journal of Physiology-Regulatory, Integrative and Comparative Physiology* 283, no. 5 (2002): R993-R1004.
2. Carroll, Aaron E. "No, You Do Not Have to Drink 8 Glasses of Water a Day." The New York Times. August 24, 2015. Accessed October 29, 2017. https://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/25/upshot/no-you-do-not-have-to-drink-8-glasses-of-water-a-day.html.
3. Salganik, Matthew J. "Bit by Bit." Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Accessed October 29, 2017. http://www.bitbybitbook.com/.
