# A Proposal for an Observational Study on the Influence of Artificiality in Developmental Psychology Studies

Xiuyuan Zhang

For many years a typical developmental psychology lab's playroom is full of toys that await young children and their parents. Fast forward to today, many developmental labs have adopted iPads and computer screens that assist psychologists to conduct their research. While the emergence of electronic devices has benefited people on a daily basis, the impact of using electronic devices as a replacement to traditional toys is yet to be discussed. The concept that the medium in which an item is presented to an audience affect the audience's perception of the item is rather straightforward. One potential problem such a substitution confronts is that  the way in which children experience some items on 2D screens might not represent how they experience and, more importantly, understand those items when they have physical presence in 3D reality. Does the increasing usage of screens in place of toys make a difference as to how children perceive and comprehend the object in front of them? Furthermore, does studies conducted with 2D representations of the world a reliable description of children's mental and behavioral development in their 3D reality?

In order to operationalize the experiment and further explore the question mentioned above, this study focuses on one particular subfield of developmental psychology: child categorization. As studies shown, children develops the ability to categorize objects from their surroundings with perceptual cues since early infancy(1). As a 2010 NIH review article mentioned, many researchers have conducted experiments on child categorization for children from different developmental stages, ranging from infants to adolescents(2). If there were any difference between how children react and comprehend objects on a screen and physical objects, this difference would create a discrepancy between experiments conducted before screens are used and now. It might even provide inaccurate data for psychologists who are trying to detect different stages of cognitive developments children undergo. Hypothetically, the participants from a certain age group in the experiment may have reached the cognitive maturity to categorize and further distinguish peas from carrots when they are placed on a plate but are unable to tell them apart on a screen. Consequently, the researcher would have collected data that do not reflect truthfully the correlation between children's cognitive development and their ability to categorize correctly. The conclusion of such theories may include a hidden variable, the 2D representation of 3D objects on screen versus 3D objects in reality. 

With the development of "big data" analysis, an observational study on the potential difference between using screens and toys as the medium in which the categorization tests are conducted become possible. This study aims to include data from early 1930s to the current scientific literature. Since the study of children's categorization is well-covered in developmental psychology, there are many experiments conducted. Thus, comparing to a typical experiment that has thirty to fifty participants, a large set of data that includes eighty years of experiments on child categorization can be used to the advantage of this study.

One of the benefits of conducting research with big data, as M. Salganik talked about in *Bit by Bit*, is being able to study small differences (3). More specifically, in this study, this small difference is the difference between experiments conducted with screens and with toys. Since the difference might be minute when the sample size of a single experiment is only less than a hundred, a large set of data is required to detect observable differences. 

After first identifying the target studies that have been published in the field of developmental psychology, one has to collect data from a multitude of different experiments over the past eighty years. The data for this study, from the outside, seems to be scattered all over the place. Since there is not one place that holds all data for these experiments, it may take longer time to organize the data. While the process of collecting this data might take more effort, it nevertheless allows us more access than several other types of databases. As one may recall, one disadvantage of conducting research with big data, as mentioned by M. Salganik in his book *Bit by Bit*, is the inaccessibility of data(4). Because the focus of the research mentioned in this proposal has set its sample to be previous research data collected by other researchers, the inaccessibility of data become less of a problem in comparison to when the source of data is private sectors or governments.

Secondly, the collections of data can be grouped into two sub-categories: with toys and with screens. At the same time, the participants of these experiments can be initially categorized into four age groups from early infancy to adolescents, according to cognitive stages purposed by J. Piaget. The different age groups can be modified and tested out to observe whether there is more significant difference within the larger groups later in the analysis. To measure the small differences between with toys and with screens, one can use two dependent variables: 1) the amount of time for children to categorize and group objects and 2) the rate of successful groupings over all grouping attempts. If, after analyzing the data, it is shown that the amount of time it takes for children within the same age group to categorize objects when interacting with toys is faster than the amount of time it takes for them to interact with screens, it would suggest a correlation between using screens and the outcome of these research. Similarly, if the rate of success for children within the same age group is higher with toys than with screens, it suggests that comprehension of objects without physical presentation is may be more difficult for children of certain age. This result would show that experiments conducted with screens are not an accurate description of whether children are able to categorize items or not, but rather revealing a hidden variable: the medium in which categorization tests are presented. 

While the proposed study takes advantage of big data to observe small differences, the proposed study also faces several challenges brought by the "big data" analysis. On the one hand, collecting this data would be more accessible than collecting it from private companies and government agencies. On the other hand, the collection of data still may be incomplete, non-representative, and showing participants' behavioral drifting.

Since the time periods in which the data is collected spans through over 80 years, the method of studying categorization might have changed over time. This difference may lead to some portion of the data being unusable or others incomplete. For instance, it is possible that the time interval, one of the dependent variables, is measured only to one or two digits after the decimal points fifty years ago while now it is measured to millisecond or microsecond. The limitation of accuracy in time interval will influence the outcome of the analysis since the potential small difference may not be revealed with less precise time measurement. 
 
However, the negative influence of incompleteness can be minimized if the data set is large enough. A large enough collection of data ensures that, after cleaning the data, there will still be an efficient amount of data left to be analyzed. Moreover, since the data collected will be of different time period and from different experimenters, this study plans to use the method of matching to ensure fair comparisons between sets of data that may have been collected differently in a discontinuous way by different researchers. 

The other challenge this study may faces is the data being non-representative. The demographics of children included in experiments may differ in a non-randomnized way. Because the difficult nature to recruit a large number of infants and children for a single experiment, it is possible that the small group of participants come from similar backgrounds within one experiment and differ largely from another experiment. The comparison of cognitive skills and development between groups of children with distinct backgrounds may not be accurate. Nevertheless, if the collected data of this study have a sufficient amount of data from different areas, the diversity in the data allows the data to be matched appropriately after careful examination.

Lastly, behavioral drifting from children in the experiments may also influence the outcome of this study. First, it is possible that children above certain age now have developed a more intuitive understanding of interacting with computer screens. If children from a certain age group categorize objects correctly with similar or less time interval on a screen comparing to using toys, this result will be an additional topic for future research. Secondly, there exists the possibility that, for the past eighty years, children's categorization abilities have experienced a general improvement. This may lead to no difference detected between these two different types of medium but also covers up an existing problem. This last issue, if emerged after data analysis, should be further addressed. 

The proposal of this study speaks to the need to make less assumptions in the field of developmental psychology where incremental cognitive development is the center of the study. While using iPads and computer monitors can bring convenience to psychologists, it may also bring in a hidden variable to the study conducted and thus obscure the theory of child categorization that psychologists have proposed. The effect of different mediums used in experiments should be further studied.

## Reference: 
1. Gelman, Susan A., and Meredith Meyer. "Child categorization." *Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Cognitive Science 2*, no. 1 (2011): 95-105.
2. Quinn, Paul C., and Peter D. Eimas. "Perceptual cues that permit categorical differentiation of animal species by infants." *Journal of experimental child psychology 63*, no. 1 (1996): 189-211.
3. Salganik, Matthew J. "Bit by Bit." Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Accessed October 15, 2017. http://www.bitbybitbook.com/.
4. Salganik, Matthew J. "Bit by Bit." Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Accessed October 15, 2017. http://www.bitbybitbook.com/.
