##### MACS 30000

##### Assignment 3

##### Fangfang Wan

1. Introduction

  ​        In behavioral economics, "social norm" is a theory claiming that environment and interaction with peers can effectively alter individual's behaviors, due to psychological reasons, such as peer pressure, etc. This theory was first proposed by Perkins and Berkowitz (1986) when they assessed peer influence and alcohol consumption among college students, and then has become a commonly used approach and powerful theory in behavioral economics studies. (Boston University School of Public Health, 2016). For example, Bond et al. (2012) conducted an experiment during 2010 US Congressional elections by posting informational and social messages on the top of Facebook users' news feeds, and they concluded that social messages that convey who has voted, especially close friends, can significantly increase actual voting and political self-expression, thus claiming that online social networking is an effective tool in boosting political participation and expression.

  ​        In this research, I will borrow the experimental format from Bond et al. (2012) but research on a different question - can online social networking boost economic behaviors? In this research, I plan to conduct an experiment to investigate how online social networking (in this research, we only consider Facebook) can alter individual's behaviors of using Venmo (a money transfer app in smartphones) in the United States, including downloads, linkage of Venmo account to Facebook account, usage frequency and transfer amount. Bond et al. (2012) differ from this research in terms of that voting is a political rather than economic behavior, while Venmo usage is associated with financial activities. Will people be more "rational" in the standard economics sense, i.e. be affected no so much by psychological factors when they make economic decisions, even when facing with social norms? Can social norm and online social networking still significantly alter people’s economic behaviors, even people face with economic budget constraints? These are auxiliary questions that I plan to answer while figuring out the core research question - can online social networking alter people's economic behavior? In this specific experimental scenario, I plan to figure out can social information about friends' usage of Venmo on Facebook alter individual's behaviors of different indicators, which I will specify in the next section, of Venmo usage in the United States.

2. Experimental design

  ​        The experiental design is largely borrowed from Bond et al. (2012), while some modifications are incoporated to adapt this research question. I will divide active user population on Facebook into 3 subgroups - those have linked their Venmo account to Facebook, those have Venmo account but have not linked their account to Facebook, and those who do not have a Venmo account at the time when the experiment starts. Each subgroup is randomly divided into treatment and control groups. Treatment group receives information about their friends’ usage on Venmo on top of their news feeds, which shows who downloaded Venmo, who linked Venmo to their account, and transferred money to whom. In contrast, control group will not receive any information about friend’s usage of Venmo. The experiment will last for 1 year.

  ​        Over the 1 year time span, I will track 4 indicators that measure people’s usage of Venmo, including downloads, linkage to Facebook, usage frequency and transfer amount. Using difference-in-difference method, I will track and compare changes in these measures between treatment and control groups once per week over the 1 year time span for the 3 subgroups respectively. I will also further compare changes in these measurements of population associated with different genders, age groups, educational levels and states of residence,  which are available on Facebook, and also closeness between users appear in the social message and the Facebook user who receives the social message, which can be obtained from Facebook, since Facebook possesses algorithms to calculate closeness between Facebook users, due to potential heterogeneity of treatment effects, which is a critical issue to be considered in experimental studies, proposed by Salganik (2017). 

  ​        The measurements of these four usage indicators are included below: 

- Downloads - change in the number of individuals who have Venmo on their smartphones. One individual can contribute at most 1 to this measurement to exclude scenarios like replacing phones, etc. Data comes from smartphone app stores, such as Apple store. 
- Linkage to Facebook - change in the number of individuals who linked their Venmo accounts to Facebook accounts. Data comes from Venmo and/or Facebook 
- Usage frequency - change in the average usage frequency per month per person over the 1 year span. Data comes from Venmo. 
- Usage amount - change in the amount transferred per month, including delivered and received amount per person, which are recorded separately, over the 1 year span. 

  ​        In terms of data access, I will gain private data from Facebook, major smartphone app stores such as Apple Store and Google App Store for Android smartphones, and Venmo. Gaining accessing to private data can be hard, but in Salganik (2017) chapter 2, the author addressed the issue of inaccessibility of data, while providing routes that can lead to fair use of private data. First of all, this study has the potential of providing benefits to all parties, since the theory behind this research supports the potential boost in economic behavior from social networkings, thus providing more transactions on Venmo, more active participation on Facebook, and higher download volume on app stores, which can bring potential benefits to those companies. The result of this study may enlighten them with new ways of generating profits. Second, I can negotiate with all those parties and sign a privacy protocol, which specifies, for example, that I cannot share the datasets with anyone who does not directly conduct this experiment, that I can only publish aggregate level data, that if ther are any negative consequences, I will undertake full liabilities, etc. Therefore, although private data can be hard to access, it is still possible through proper negotiations. 

3. Assessment

  ​        In Salganik (2017), the author proposed some critical issues in experimental studies, including validity (statistical, internal, construct and external), heterogeity of treatment effect, and mechanisms. In this section, I will assess these issues one by one. 

  ​        As for validity, statistical and internal validity is taken care by correct statistical methods and proper conduction of the experiment according to the experimental design. Construct validity is assured, since the experimental design executes exactly in accordance with the research question and theory. In this research, I intervene only with whether users receive social message and measure their change in economic behavior, while holding other factors constant, thus is closely connected to the reasoning of social norm theory. The only aspect of validity in which problems may arise is external validity. Although this research includes a large population, it is however limited in the United States, while cultural reasons can largely affect social norms. If we do this experiment in countries that bear tradition of high social conformity, will the social norm effect be more significant? Constrastingly, if we conduct the same experiment in countries that encourage personal idiosyncrasies, do they still perfom similar patterns? The establishment of external validity requires further research and experiments on larger population in the globe. 

  ​       Heterogeneity of treatment effects is taken care by the experimental design. First, I have divided individuals into 3 different subgroups - those have linked their Venmo account to Facebook, those have Venmo account but have not linked their account to Facebook, and those who do not have a Venmo account at the time when the experiment starts, since, for example, people who have already linked their Facebook and Venmo account will not link their account for another time. Second, as specified in the experimental design, I will compare changes in these measurements of population associated with different genders, age groups, educational levels and states of residence, and also closeness between users appear in the social message and the Facebook user who receives the social message. People of different genders, age groups and educational level may exhibit different levels of tendency of being affected by peers, so there may involve heterogeity of treatment effect. Venmo's usage frequency might vary by geographical locations, thus states of residences are also considered. As for clossness between users appear in the social message and the Facebook user who receives the social message, in Bond et al. (2012), they claim that the closer the relationship, the more significant social norm effects they exhibit. Therefore, I will also consider different treatment effect for different closeness level between the user and users appear in the message. 

  ​        Causal mechanism is also largely guaranteed in this experimental design, since I intervene only with whether users receive social message and measure their change in economic behavior, while holding other factors constant. However, the psychological mechanism which causes the process of social norm effect to occur is difficult to figure out for economists, and such task should be left for psychologists to conduct further studies. 

##### References:

Bond, R. M., Fariss, C. J., Jones, J. J., Kramer, A. D., Marlow, C., Settle, J. E., & Fowler, J. H. (2012). A 61-million-person experiment in social influence and political mobilization. *Nature*, *489*(7415), 295-298.

Boston University School of Public Health (April 28, 2016). *Social Norms Theory*. Retrieved from http://sphweb.bumc.bu.edu/otlt/MPH-Modules/SB/BehavioralChangeTheories/BehavioralChangeTheories7.html

Perkins, H. W., & Berkowitz, A. D. (1986). Perceiving the community norms of alcohol use among students: Some research implications for campus alcohol education programming. *International journal of the Addictions*, *21*(9-10), 961-976.

Salganik, M. J. (2017). *Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age*. Princeton University Press. Retrieved from <http://www.bitbybitbook.com/en/asking-questions/>

Note: This research is largely the same as my first assignment, in which I falsely proposed an experimental study rather than an observational one. However, I have introduced substantial revisions and improvement into the proposal. 

