Assignment 6 - Ethics
================
Gabriel Velez
11/20/2017

Montana Election Experiment
---------------------------

*Part 1.* The “Montana election experiment” raises important questions about how to address and think about ethical issues in relation to conducting social science research. While there are many ways to evaluate and discuss the ethics of a particular research design or experiment, Salganik’s four principles offer a clear framework to discuss this example.

In the case of the first principle, respect for persons refers to the fact that individuals should be treated as autonomous (i.e., able to make choices individually about their participation) with special attention to those with diminished autonomy (e.g. prisoners or children). In this case, while an argument could be made that each person who received the mailer had the autonomous ability to throw it out or not read it, the subterfuge means that any given person who chose to read it did not know what they were actually reading and there was no informed consent. There was no compulsion to be a participant, but I would argue neither was each individual able to opt in and give informed consent (and in fact may have “opted” in by reading the flyer because they were actually deceived into thinking that it was an official mailer). As far as vulnerable populations, this case does not seem to cause any issues since there were none (e.g., children, prisoners) targeted or involved.

The next principle is beneficence, which means that benefits should be maximized and harms minimized with a balance of risks and benefits. In this case, the possible benefits may include greater likelihood of voting, while the risks are quite minimal. In fact, the risks for participants would be small hypothetical ones (perhaps embarrassment after the fact if they realized it wasn’t real or the backlash that occurred after the research was revealed), and the most likely to be harmed would be the judicial candidates (though this is balanced by the fact that this information was public). Therefore, I would say that the balance certainly seems in favor of the benefits for the participants, as well as for the overall society.

The third principle of justice refers to distributing the burdens and benefits of research, and making sure to protect vulnerable populations that may be exploited. With the information provided in the introduction to this question, it is not clear if the sample was random (though the researchers do claim that the mailer was not sent to those of any particular political group). The researchers response does not mention, however, if there was variance between groups or between those who received it in Montana and those who did not by factors like race or socioeconomic status. It would be important to consider such factors (especially as these are linked historically and, one could argue, in modern times to efforts to prevent or make voting more difficult) before definitely saying that the benefit of extra election information was evenly spread. I would thus say that I do not feel informed enough to make a judgement about the justice of this research, but would certainly be weary that it might be problematic.

Finally, the last area of focus is respect for law and public interest by complying with the former and providing as much transparency as possible. This principle clearly has two sides as the Commissioner of Public Practices has asserted that the research broke state campaign law, while the Stanford spokeswoman has argued against this. While I do not know enough about Montana law to make an argument either way, it does seem clear that there is at least a viable claim that this principle has been violated. Additionally, the research was not submitted to Stanford’s IRB, which is in place to help uphold ethical standards in academic research.

*Part 2.* Even if the mailers were sent to a random sample of voters, the experiment could still have altered the outcome of the election if different groups acted differently on the information. For instance, if per say Democrats in Montana tend to not vote more or possibly do not have as much access to voting information, then such a flyer could cause a greater impact on registered Democrats. In this scenario, the number of those who received the flyer may have been statistically equal, but those who acted because of it would not be, thus affecting the election. Obviously, this concern would be greater if the election had a close result.

*Part 3.* This information does not change my assessment of the research design as problematic because, in fact, the difference in possible voting behaviors could actually further feed into my concerns. Though the researchers oversampled Democrats because they believed anticipated voter turnout to be lower in that group, they did not discuss why, which would have important implications as to the principle of justice. If Democrats vote in lower numbers, there may be reasons underlying this that the intervention addresses itself (e.g., access to less information). Therefore, the impact would be greater among Democrats and the oversampling could in fact compound the issue of affecting one group over another. Additionally, I would add that there is still the concern about the subterfuge and lack of consent involved in the experiment (an issue related to respect for person) no matter who the mailers were sent to.

*Part 4.* The researchers argument seems to based in political impartiality and lack of impact. That is, the researchers indicate first (as they state in their letter) that they had no political affiliation, and second, that they believe that their experiment would not have affected the actual outcome of the election and so they did not see it as problematic. To a degree, this connects to the principle of beneficence since they specifically chose a case where the risk of influencing the actual outcome of the election would be minimal. While I believe it is commendable and important that the researchers were considering the potential effects of this research, I would still argue that there are substantial questions about whether this experiment respects the autonomy of the individuals involved and the rule of law. The issues with these ethical principles are unrelated to the specific context; that is, no matter if the election were to be affected, individuals still have the right to make an informed choice about participation or to not be tricked in this way. The legal issue may relate to political motivation, but if legally their intervention qualifies as “independent expenditures,” then they have broken a law no matter the results of the election nor what they intended.

*Part 5/6.* A close election result would not change my assessment because, as mentioned above, my concerns with the research center on questions that are unrelated to the actual impact of the intervention (i.e. involving principles of respect for persons and law). I would say that even if the concern were about the actual impact on the election, I would argue that it should still not matter about the actual results because that is after the fact. For example, along a similar vein, one could that because research on abused children did not lead to any measureable negative psychological impact then it is ethical. Nevertheless, if the possibility of this impact was not considered or planned for (e.g., by having psychologists involved and other support services), then the research was still problematic, no matter the actual outcome. Similarly, in this case, if the possible impact on the election were not adequately considered and addressed, it would not matter to me what the actual result was.

*Part 7.* This is an interesting twist because it brings up questions of motivation behind the research, which may not be directly included in the four principles, but are of ethical concern. To this end, the principles do not explicitly state anything about a researcher’s motivation, but I still believe that it is interwoven into them. Therefore while this fact does not directly change my objective assessment of the ethical nature of the research based on the four principles, it does create further complications that I raise as concerns. None of the four principles specifically deal with impartiality of research (political or financial). Nevertheless, this fact about Adam Bonica challenges the impartiality and motivation behind the study, which then places some of the issues raised earlier in an even more problematic light. As one example, I would think it would increase the likelihood that this research violated Montana law. If this was done for financial reasons and had direct links to financial gains, it could possibly fall under different legal obligations. One could challenge using the argument that it was an academic study and possibly not subject to the same regulations.

*Part 8.* There are three approaches that I might have considered if I were to design a study with similar research questions and goals. First, I would consider beginning with a hypothetical scenario. While there are significant concerns about generalization and external validity with such an approach, I would consider first just doing a survey and asking people. While it would take deeper investigation of the literature and validated measures, I would consider asking people about their intent to vote, and their intent to vote if they had specific information (without giving it to them). In this case, a similar sample could be reached by either mailing out the survey, sending a link, or going door-to-door and using a process of obtaining informed consent, though the costs would be much higher than what they were in this study. At the same time, the concerns about respect for persons and (as far as I know) legality could be addressed.

A second approach would be to use a similar design to the one that was done, but with a few key differences. First, I would not use the Montana State Seal, and instead make it clear where the mailer came from. This would help address the issue of respect for persons as each individual would have the choice to continue reading the information. Additionally, I would consider doing a short follow-up call after the election (both to ask the participants if they read the material and ask them for their personal opinion on if it affected their voting, which could explore a related question of perceived impact versus actual). To address respect for law, I would considering coordinating with the Commission of Political Practices of Montana to make sure that the approach fit within their legal guidelines. If they felt that the providing of the measure of liberal and conservativeness of the judges was problematic, I would consider other alternatives with them, such as simply providing a link to where judges previous decisions can be made or other ways to access the public information on all of the judges.

The last approach would have been to use an online platform (as we saw previously in the quarter with Facebook) where participants would have to agree to terms of service that might include something about being provided information like this. While at times I feel personally like terms of service also seem a bit deceptive (since so few people read them), at least the autonomy of persons would be addressed by people being able to have the complete information that they agree to. The respect for law concern may still have to be addressed as I lay out in the second approach above.
