# The ethics of the Montana election experiment

## Assess this study using Salganik's four principles of ethical research (Q1)

### Respect for people
Respecting people means treating people as autonomous and honoring their wishes. The basic form of respect people could be interpreted as informed consent, i.e. presented with relevant information in a comprehensible format and should be voluntarily agreeing to participate. In this case, informed consent may compromise research goals. If we tell the voters that we are studying the effects of advertisement and turnout rate, they might change the behavior because they noticed that their behaviors are observed. This potential compromising makes it a difficult situation to access the ethics standard of respecting for people by using the golden rule of informed consent.

This research made a tradeoff of informed consent and the validity of the research, which I would not criticize this experiment solely base on the criterial for respecting the people. Although one could argue “informed consent for everything” is a good practice for high ethical standard, this simple rule is not always consistent with current ethical frame work of social science research. Many IRBs have concluded that lack of consent in these studies is consistent with existing rules, and US courts have also supported many cases which lack of consent and deception in measuring discrimination.  For this experiment, as long as in accordance with the election laws, is not that harmful for individual if they just read a flyer and change their vote behavior. Otherwise, we will find talk with people before election is highly inappropriate.

### Beneficence
Beneficence in the frame of Salganik means a balance between risks and benefits. The purpose is to maximize the benefits and minimize the risks. To access this criterion, we need to access from both pros and cons. For the risks side, first, this research could potentially harm the participant psychologically. They might feel offended, waste of time and angry when they think the election results is altered due to this practice. Second, the linking of political stance makes it biased the purpose of the election. According to the rule, this is nonpartisan election, people should focus on the quality, such as ability, knowledge, and past records, of the candidate but on the political affiliation of the candidate. However, with the association of political stand and the candidate, people will less be considering the merits of the candidate, but more on the political stance. This could potentially contribute to polarization of the US politics.

While on the benefit side, if we discovery a method to raise turnout rate, it could potentially benefit for the American people. The purpose of democratic election is to reflect people’s will as close as possible to deliver a government of the people, by the people and for the people. When we have lower turnout rate, from statistics, we have especially a low turnout rate for urban population, young people, minority groups. The electorate does not reflect American. Even worse, at local level, turnout can dip into single digits, this could benefit for extreme candidates and make incumbents have no real contest, thus further deteriorate the US election system and increase Bureaucracy. If we could increase the turnout rate, we could potentially make huge positive impact for the American people.

In conclusion, to overall estimate the risks and benefits, I would support the benefit side is more than the risk side, due to potentially large scale and wide spread positive impact. But of course, the negative impact is non-trivial, we need to be careful of this point under further inspection. 

### Justice
Justice means an evenly distributed costs and benefits among the society. There are two potentially injustice.  The first one is the injustice of the location. As my pervious assessment the benefits are evenly distributed among the United States of American. While the potential non-trivial costs are internalized in the Montana State. Second, if the poster is delivery in a randomly generate method to republican and democrats, it would be fair for people of two party. However, the flyer in study is unevenly distributed, and more favorable of democrats. This creates an injustice among two major parties.

### Respect for Law and Public Interest
The worst part for this research design is potentially law-breaking behaviors: 1) the using of the Great Seal of Montana state without consent, 2) not properly conducted Institutional Review Board (IRB) process at Dartmouth College and completely absence at Stanford University, 3) the non-random sampling of flyers could potentially lead to advocate advertisement for candidate, while the non-disclosed and reported advocate advertisement might lead to potential breaking of the regulation of election law of Montana State. 

### Conclusion
This paper is somehow justified on the aspect of respect of the people, beneficial, while it is questionable in terms of justice and respect for the law and public interests. This paper could be improved with alternative design of the compliance of the law and internal ethics procedures.

## Conditions under which this experiment could affect the outcome of the election (Q2 - Q3)
Q2: Two potential way that this experiment could change the outcome of the election. One of this is that if the two group of people have heterogeneous treatment effects. For example, even if we draw a random sample of the receivers, let’s say (highly hypothetical) democrats are more likely to vote if they see the post compared to republican, then that an evenly distributed could be unfair to republicans. Second is that the linking of the political stand and the candidate is already violates the spirits of non-partisan election, and makes people focus more on the political affiliation rather than merits of the candidate. For example, more conservative one suffered if Montana is pro liberal.

Q3: In fact, the mailer was not sent to a random sample of voters. They send around twice as much as the liberal voter to conservative voters. Then they argue that their disparity between Democratic and Republican numbers on grounds that significant lower among Democratic voters are not valid. Because it is not their effort to make turnout rate of the two party are the same. But they must ensure that the increase in turnout rate should be similar for both party. This mistake is material, because this confirmed my concern that this sampling might change the election results material and systemically. By applying this design, it could potentially change the results of the election.


## Closeness of the election (Q4 -Q5)
Q4: Choose a uneven competition generally reduces the concern we had on the results. The researchers are aware of the fact that there is potential harm of the democracy order using the experiment. If we reaccess the original four principle, we find that this does not reduce the cocern for respect for people and respect for the law and public interest, since there is still no formal consent or formal consent of great seal usage. It changes the evaluation of beneficence. On the one hand, this reduce the concern for changing the election outcome, since the difference is large and thus unlikely to be changed. On the other hand, this also reduce the external validity of the research result. Because a uneven match has different voting behavior compared to a close match, thus might not applicable in other election situtations we might care more. Thus it could reduce the beneficence in general, but could improve justice. Less harm to Monata and less benefit in general, thus the uneven distribution of risk and benefits are re-balanced.

Q5: This chart showed us that the election result is not particular close. The first group of the candiate is only a confirmation of vote and Justice Herbert and chanllenger Rice are both conservative, therefore it is a straight forward win for the incumbent Justice. The second group of the candiate is more likley to be problematic, because they do have partisan bias. But the difference of their vote is 60,000, this big difference is unlikely solely cause by a flyer which only contains partisian ifnormation send to around 100,000 people. Thus this confirm what we hypoethsis in the question 4, and do change some of the evaulation such as more justice. However, the evaluation of principle of respect for people and respect for the law is still remain negative.

## Importance of CrowdPAC (Q6)
Bonica is a cofounder of CrowdPAC. This site is a pro-profit organization used to increase voter’s turnout rate and mobilize people to political actions. In this sense, it might violate the conflicts of interest if not properly mentioned in the research and the flyer of the advertisement. Depends on how she presents the flyer, if the investigators do not write down the information of the CrowdPAC and this PAC receives money from Democratic donor, this would be further violation of the election laws. Because explicit showing the political affiliation is required in Montana election law.

## What would you do differently (Q7)
This research is highly controversial, and its design are problematic. Even worse, without holding the ethics standard, it might also break some laws.  In order to improve our research, I will improve research design by following ways. 
First of all, fix the legal requirement. To be fully acceptable, the research practice should in accordance with the legal requirement of Montana election law. We will ask the permission of Montana government for using the Great Seal of Montana State in our advertisement. We will review the design of our flyer with the Montana Commission of Ethics, and query about the requirement of registering, reporting and disclosure requirement before we conduct the study. Further, we should also deal with the institutional ethics concern. To original research design should go through the Stanford Institutional Board Review process, and have a clearer review with regard Dartmouth College. 

Second, in order to minimize the negative impacts towards the election. A smaller sample is already enough. For example, we just need to have 1000 representative participants rather than a large number of 100,000 participants. According to the law of large number, 100,000 participants are not much better if we just want to study the turn out rate change without subgroup analysis. The influence of the election results then turned to be much smaller compared to a large sample set.

Third, improve our respect for people. Although the full inform consent might obscure our research results. We could still get some weak form of consent. After all the inform consent is not all or no choice. It should be a discrete measure. We could debrief participants after the study is over about what actually happened and remediating any harms and obtaining consent after the experiment is conducted.

Fourth, improve the concern for justice. We should not send more flyer to liberal than conservative leaning voters. We should adpot a procedure to ensure that the total treatment effects for liberal and conservative voters are the same, rather than make the turnout rate of the liberal voters and conservative voters be the same.

Fifth, considering a natural experiment could also help. Because some states require non-partisan election and some states allows partisan election. We might use the states of not using partisan election as an instrument of partisan information, thus we could see a difference of turnout rate if we apllying proper matching methods.


# Reference
Salganik, Matthew J. 2017. Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. Open review edition.