HW\_3 - Proposing an Experiment
================
Nora Nickels
10/30/2017

Assignment 3
------------

Perspectives of Computational Analysis - Fall 2017
--------------------------------------------------

### Research Question: Could digital social media influence messages associated with male vs. female interest reveal the risk *and/or* create a platform for alleviation of stereotype threat in a digital media domain?

Stereotype threat refers to being at risk of confirming, as a self-characteristic, a negative stereotype about one’s social group (Steele & Aronson 1995). Although a wide variety of social groups are susceptible to stereotype threat, as the conditions that produce it are ones in which any highlighted stereotype implicates one though association with a social category, one of the most widely vulnerable and highlighted social groups is that of women in math and STEM careers and majors. Situations that increase the salience of the stereotyped group, in this case, women in math, can increase vulnerability to stereotype threat, as one will be more likely to view oneself in terms of that group membership. For example, statistics about male and female performance in math or the salience of the difficulty of a math evaluation has been shown to undermine performance because of concerns about possibly confirming negative stereotypes.

Research has shown that stereotype threat can cause underachievement on classroom exams, standardized texts, and other tasks in non-academic domains, as well as increased use of self-defeating behaviors, disengagement, and altered professional aspirations. Although these outcomes have shown clear implications for the growing field of stereotype threat research, it is crucial to examine the real-world situations that may bring salience to the social category and stereotyped group.

Studies have shown that gender-associated stereotype threat can be easily induced by asking individuals to indicate gender or by having a larger ratio of men to women in a situation. Research studies have also shown that stereotype threat has caused underachievement when exposing stereotype salience with STEM and math topics as opposed to topics in reading and the humanities. If digital social media data and behavioral interest data is susceptible to stereotype threat, we must be aware of how social media messages and cues that are signaled may affect subsequent answers and behaviors in the resulting digital behavior of social media users.

The goal of this work would be to observe the potential of social influence to make salient the gender bias and negative stereotype of women being less capable and therefore less interested in math and STEM fields, or vice versa - to alleviate stereotype threat by making salient gender information that goes against this bias. To assess the impact of gendered social influence on social group awareness and subsequent interest and behaviors, we plan to conduct a randomized digital controlled trial experiment. We predict that in a social media influence forum, Facebook, female participants who are asked to follow up on STEM digital media material and expressing opinion interest in STEM digital media material will be less likely to show interest in STEM articles with a male social influence message, but will be more likely to show interest in STEM articles with a female social influence message. If a Facebook user were to become susceptible to the salience of this stereotype threat in digital social influence messages regarding interest in varying digital media topics, their subsequent performance, interests, and behaviors may be affected in terms of the results of behavioral interests and likelihood to click on STEM digital media.

This research will seek to answer the following question: could a digital social media influence message associated with male vs. female interest reveal the risk for and/or create a platform for alleviation of stereotype threat in a digital media domain? That is, does gendered social influence act as a salient trigger OR alleviator of stereotype threat, and therein have a subsequent effect on user interests and opinion answers? The present experiment will examine one procedure that may be used to alleviate stereotype threat and therefore improve interest. Specifically, females in STEM-associated stereotype threat may be alleviated by making women aware of female social interest that has already been expressed by other women.

The research design here would involve conducting a randomized controlled trial with female users (users who have already specified their gender in the “About” section of their Facebook profile) of Facebook in the United States. All users will be shown a posted statement in their News Feed regarding a STEM digital media article. Users will be randomly assigned to a ‘threat’ or ‘alleviation’ group; the ‘threat’ group will be shown a counter indicating which other Facebook users had already “liked” this post, and these users will be Facebook users with male names, while the ‘alleviation’ group will include and show users with female names. Participants will be invited to either ignore, “like”, “share”, or actual click to read the media article further. Logistic regressions predicting the amount of interest and likelihood of ignoring, liking, sharing, or reading the article will be conducted, with the ‘threat’ or ‘alleviation’ treatment followed as the independent variable. This experiment will be computationally-enhanced in that we will be using the internet to recruit, randomize, and distribute the experimental treatment.

To assess this experimental design, we will discuss the internal validity, external validity, and construct validity of this project.

The strength of this experiment lies in its external validity; using a social media platform provides a more realistic scenario of stereotype threat triggers than an artificial laboratory study. Depending on the amount of Facebook users we will test (hopefully an n of six or seven figures, dependent upon our contact and access to Facebook), we will be able to generalize our findings well to a wider population. In-lab stereotype threat studies often run the risk of testing with WEIRD populations, and of many intelligent undergraduate students, many whose interest in STEM topics is based on the influence of their academic environment. This digital format allows for a broader subject pool, reduced costs, and reduced need for informed consent, as Facebook information is often public.

However, by seeking to balance the benefits of both observational and experimental studies using an experimental digital study, we do run the risk of a less accurate internal validity using such a wide variety of participants on a digital platform. Without the ability to control the external environment and interests of the participants, our inferences in these individuals expressing more interest or being negatively affected by stereotype threat may have nothing to do with a trigger of a gender question, but instead on genuine interests for those individuals. For example, we run the risk of randomization not fully being affective, if by chance our randomization includes women who are particularly interested in STEM topics more in one treatment group than the other, we will lose internal validity. We hope that our high n of individuals will bolster this potential issue, as we justify these potential weaknesses by the strength of the external validity of the experiment.

Some of the issues of internal validity go along with potential weaknesses of the design with construct validity. In particular, a social media domain is more private than making behavioral choices in front of other members of the stereotyped or non-stereotyped group, especially if you have your privacy settings on, and this may help individuals to not be negatively affected by salience in demographics trigger questions. Without survey data, we do not have the ability to control for major, academic interest, and career positions using other demographics questions for our collected data. One way to help this weakness would be to potentially seek out female users who have similar privacy settings, and therefore would assume that their liking or interest in the article could potentially be shown or not shown to other users as well. Overall, our experimental design will allow us to directly manipulate the treatment effect, and with thoughtfulness of validity in mind, we can observe outcomes of this effect in terms of the output of female users who ignore, “like”, click further, and even “share” the post as well.

In conclusion, understanding the effects of gender salience in social media influence messages regarding STEM material would help to potentially mitigate the effects of subtle stereotypical messages in social media forums, thus reducing stereotype threats effects on interest and behavior.
