# Persp-Analysis Assignment 1
Author: Andi Liao

Date：2017/10/15


## Who is the Shiny Star on Instagram? A Observational Research Based on Ins Pictures

### I. Research Background & Question

#### **Why Instagram?**

Instagram is a popular social media mobile application for sharing pictures and videos. Unlike other social media platforms including Facebook and Twitter, Instagram has following two distinguished attributes:

* First, every Instagram post must be sent with a picture, which means that posts of plain texts are not allowed in Instagram.
* Second, Instagram is built based on a mobile-device environment, therefore, the website version of Instagram has limited functions.
* Last but not least, there are countless celebrities actively using Instagram, and contents in their accounts can be assessed by public without extra permission.

Given these three characteristics above, social media data of high quality can be generated by extracting posts from Instagram. Every entry of data will contain at least one piece of photo, possibly along with a location, some hashtags and texts, and every post has to be sent from verified celebrity accounts using mobile phones. Therefore, Instagram data will be perfectly efficient and tidy if my research aims at analyzing posted pictures of celebrities.

#### **Why Pictures?**

As it is shown in previous researches, a picture is more eye-catching than a thousand words, indicating that pictures always pop out when comparing with words. However, what will happen if pictures encounter pictures?

Here comes the question:
* **How many categories of pictures are there in Instagram?**
* **Which category is the most appealing to public?**

Actually, the first question has been solved by Hu, Manikonda and Kambhampati (2014), and they divided pictures in Instagram into eight different categories: friends, food, gadget, captioned photos, pet, activity, selfie and fashion. Therefore, my research will mainly focus on the second question, i.e., figuring out the most attractive category of pictures posted by celebrities in Instagram.

To be specific, this research will try to answer following sub-questions:

* **What is the distribution of picture categories for celebrities' Instagram posts?**
* **What picture categories will attract the most likes and comments?**
* **Which is the best indicator of popularity, followers, likes or comments?**

### II. Research Design

#### **Research Method**

This research will be based on **counting things and measuring things**. For counting things, this research will calculate the number of photos of different content categories, and the total number of likes and comments within every category. For measuring things, this research will figure out the best indicator of popularity from the number of followers, likes and comments.

#### **Data Source**

The research data will be collected by extracting Instagram posts from verified celebrities accounts using API. In particular, these elements will be variables of interest:
* **Demographic information**: user name, gender, age and job
* **Account activity**: number of posts, followers and following
* **Photos**: content, number of likes and comments

#### **Project Framework**

The research project will be executed in four steps:

* **Data Collection and Pre-processing**:

  Crawl Instagram posts of verified celebrities accounts from last full calendar year (namely, Jan 1st 2016 to Dec 31st 2016), and select those accounts who posted at least 36 times during this period.

  Users will be divided into different subgroups by their gender, age and job, for further analysis.


* **Categorization**:

  To answer the first sub-question, group these selected photos into eight different categories using image recognition. Inconsistency between two levels are expected.
  * Group level: The distribution of different photo content categories per subgroup will be displayed, so that we can observe the posting habit and tendency of every single group.
  * Integrated level: Furthermore, the photo categories distribution of all users will be generated, in order to find out the most frequent category of photo posting.


* **Accumulation**:

  To answer the second sub-question, sum up the number of likes and comments of each photo category. Similar to what we will do in the "Categorization" step, the analysis of group level and Integrated level will be conducted. That is, we will figure out the photo category that attract the most likes and comments for each user group, and for all users as well. Inconsistency between two levels are expected.

* **Comparing Indicators**:

  To answer the last sub-question, we will sort all the users by rankings of the most followers, likes and comments, respectively. External ranking tables will be borrowed to check the reliability of our followers, likes and comments rankings. Similar to what we will do in the "Categorization" and "Accumulation" step, this operation will be executed in two levels, within user subgroup and all users. Inconsistency between two levels are expected.

### III. Discussion

#### **Why Counting Method?**

The counting method and measuring method might be the simplest research methods of observational research, but is suitable and accurate in this Instagram picture research setting. What we are interested is the most popular photo content category of celebrities' accounts in Instagram, therefore, counting the number of photos in each photo content category, measuring popularity using rankings of followers, likes and comments is enough to draw convincing conclusions.  


* **vs. Predicting**:

  If the number of followers, likes or comments can successfully match rankings of external resources, it seems that we can use these ins index ranking to predict the popularity of celebrities next year. However, it might irrelevant to the research design, which focuses on finding the most appealing photo category of celebrities' posts in Instagram.

* **vs. Natural Experiment**:

  Experiments of any kind are quite unnecessary for this research. Ins posts are ordinary daily events, and plenty of high quality data can be collected without referring to specific conditions. Natural experiments are more suitable for research dealing with infrequent events, which is obviously not the case of this Instagram popular picture research.

* **vs. Matching**:

  Matching design is also unrealistic for this research, as it is hard to find pairs for those celebrities users. If we choose Instagram of ordinary people, the magnitude of photos, followers, likes and comments will be enormously different. Moreover, if we choose photos of celebrities' accounts from similar social media platforms, the reactive mechanism between posters and followers might be completely distinct. Given the difficulty of finding ideal pairs, matching design can not be utilized in this research.

#### **Big Data**

Inevitably, this research will be benefit from advantages of big data and suffer from disadvantages of big data at the same time.

* **Good Side**

  * **Big**:

    Using big data, we can collect enough data to support the research design. Although there are eight different photo content categories, a certain number of qualified data will fall into each category, thanks to big data. Under this condition, we don't need to worry that some categories will contain only a few data entries, and further bias statistical inference.

  * **Non-reactive**:

    Both bloggers and their followers will not react to the research, as they have posted photos, followed accounts they love, or interacted with each other before we extract data. Additionally, they are highly likely to be unknown of this ongoing scientific research, so they are unable to adjust their behavior patterns accordingly.

* **Bad Side**

  * **Non-representative**:

    Clearly, not every popular star use or heavily use Instagram, and these well-known Instagram users are more likely to be female and younger. The extracted data might be not representative of the entire celebrity group as first place.

  * **Drifting**:

    As a hot mobile-phone application, Instagram itself must have experienced various bug fixed and performance improvement during a single year, which might affect behavior patterns of bloggers and their followers. This inevitable system drifting of platform is impossible to recover by data procession of researchers, and it may influence the result dramatically. 


### IV. Reference

Hu, Y., Manikonda, L., & Kambhampati, S. (2014, June). What We Instagram: A First Analysis of Instagram Photo Content and User Types. In Icwsm
