 
Computational Analysis      
Asking Question    
Kanyao Han



## Combing Digitally-Enhanced Survey with Vehicle Telematics Information to Predict the Probability of Car Accident and Adjust Insurance Prices

### Introduction to the Research Question

In car insurance market, many insurance companies set their insurance price according to a traditional survey related to customers' demographic features and very limited socio-economic records. For example, they use logistical regression model to predict which age cohort has a higher probability of car accident and thus set a higher insurance price for this age cohort. However, the predictory power of traditional logistical regression technique is not high enough. This is because demographic features and several types of socio-economic records are indirect indicators of the probability of car accident that should have been better predicted mainly by driving behavior. In this case, figuring out the relationship between driving behavior and demographic features/socio-economic records can help us to build up a  more powerful model or algorithm for driving behavior prediction through demographic and socio-economic information when it is impossible for us to get enough complete observational data of driving behavior. Besides, Insurance companies' traditional surveys have a drawback. They usually only collect customers' fixed demographic and socio-economic information such as age, gender and alcohol history, but cannot have other socio-economic dynamic information. For example, a person moves to a neighbourhood where there are many driving novices. This fact may increase the probability of car accident caused by driving novices. Therefore, we need new techniques to not only estimate the relationship mentioned above, but also to collect dynamic information through digitally-enhanced survey. Only in this way can car insurance companies more precisely predict car accident probability and set a more reasonable price to guarantee a stable profit.  

Thanks to the development of Internet and telematics that directly monitors and records driving behavior, we obtain the opportunity to collect more survey information and to more accurately estimate the relationship between driving behavior and other demographic and socio-economic information. Taking advantage of them, we can ask **how we can make a better prediction of car accident.** This general question can also be divided into three specific questions. 

- **First, what is the relationship between driving behavior and customers' demographic and socio-economic information?**   
- **Second, how can we use the new type of survey in digital age to collect useful information in this field?**   
-  **Finally, how can we combine observational data in the first question and survey data in the second question to improve predictory power for car accident.**      

Given that I have a set of vehicle telematics data in Beijing, my regional focus is Beijing.

### The Necessity of Digitally-Enhanced Survey (Digitally-Enhanced Survey versus Observational Survey)
Before research design, I want to discuss why digitally-enhanced survey is necessary for my research question although I already have a set of driving behavior data via telematics information.  Clarifying this issue can help us understand research design better.

- **Telematics data (observational data) is good but not practical in most cases in Beijing.** I admit that observational data of driving behavior recorded by Telematics contains so much information such as driving miles, driving speed, accelerated speed, braking habit, routine driving paths and so on. These informations are much stronger predictory indicators for car accident probability than traditional demographic and limited socio-economic informations. However, only a small percentage of car owners in Beijing install telematical devices in their cars. In this case, observational data is good but impractical for insurance companies. Therefore, we still need to estimate the relationship between observational data and survey data in order to improve the predictive power of the latter through more complicated model or algorithm derived from the relationship, and then to further improve the predictory power through dynamic information obtained through digitally enhanced survey.        
- **Telematics data traditional survey are incomplete.** The dynamic information I mentioned in the first paragraph is not contained either in telematics data or in traditional survey data. However, it can be obtained from digitally-enriched survey more easily and practically (I will discuss it later).       
-  **Combining different kinds of data can bring a more powerful prediction compared with only one kind of data.** For those who install telematical devices in their cars, we have the opportunity to combine three types of data in order to improve predictory accuracy. In fact, although sometimes we can infer driving behavior from demographic and socio-economic information, they cannot substitute each other. For example, even if an old driver and a young driver have a same bad driving habit, the old driver may have a higher probability of car accident due to his low response ability. Besides, dynamic information is another useful indicator. Therefore , combining them in one model or algorithm may improve predictive power. Insurance companies can also optimize their usage-based insurance, the price of which is based on driving behavior indicated by telematics data. In other words, insurance companies can modify not only their traditional insurance but also usage-based insurance.       


### Research Design             
####Research Goals      

The goal of this survey is to collect two kinds of information. The first one is traditional demographic and socio-economic information in insurance market. It is used for estimating its relationship with driving behavior and then improving its predictory power of car accident. The second one is dynamic information that can enrich our understanding of the probability of car accident. 

#### Conducting Survey
I will distribute the questionnaire through Email easily since I have had people's contact information recorded in telematics data. In order to attract more people in telematics data to answer questions, I plan to cooperate with some insurance companies and they can offer insurance discounts as long as respondents answer complete a basic questionnaire and a certain number of dynamic surveys.

#### Basic Questionnaire
The basic questionnaire in my design contains traditional demographic and socio-economic questions, including birth year, gender, driving years, occupation, alcohol history, drug history, criminal records, traffic violation records and so on. People only need to answer these basic questions once. 

#### Dynamic Information Survey  
The dynamic survey in my design consist of an initial questionnaire and many self-reports. Initial questionnaire will ask respondents some open questions about their driving environments, such as community environment and road condition. However, driving environment are always changing . For example, there may be many driving novices in one communities and thus the driving environment is not very good because they may often crash into other peoples' cars. But one year later they become more experienced or our respondent moves to another community so that the environment changes. Therefore, we will require respondents to report environmental changes at any time they feel necessary. They can send Email to us or comment in our website for this research. They are also encouraged to discuss with each other in the website. More dynamic information they provide, more insurance discounts they will get. I will classify their reports into different environmental categories and then score them in the scale of strongly negative effects, negative effects, neither negative or positive effects, positive effects and strongly positive effects. It is worth noting that dynamic information is related to environments which have similar influences to those who live in the same area. Therefore, as long as we have some other people's demographic information such as their home addresses, we can still take advantage of dynamic information no matter we have observational data about them or not. 

#### Analysis Methods
Now we have three types of data. The first is observational data of driving, the second is basic demographic and socio-economic data and the third is dynamic environment data. I plan to find the relationship between the first data and the second data. As long as the latter can precisely predict the first in a certain model or algorithm, we can use the predicted results to further predict car accident probability. In other words, even if we don't have any observational data, we can also precisely infer people's driving behavior from their demographic and socio-economic information through the model or algorithm formed in our research, and then further predict accident probability.  Besides, when we combine dynamic environment data with the first predicted results, the general predictory power may be further improved. As for usage-based insurance that require customers to provide driving behavior recorded by telematics, it is more convenient for us to combine three types of data to improve the predictory power.

### Potential Source of Error   
The most challenging error in my research design is that some drivers who install telematical devices may be vastly different from other people who don't install them (representation error). In other words, the relational mechanisms between different groups of people may be different so that our predictory model or algorithm cannot be applied to other groups. One solution of this problem is seriously check our respondents' demographic and socio-economic information. If their demographic and socio-economic composition is different from those who buy car insurance in my cooperated companies, I will weight the response from my samples via post-stratification method to simulate the composition of those who buy car insurance. The problem of measurement error in my research is not problematic. First, the demographic and socio-economic information I collect are stable social facts such as physical characteristics and countable records. Second, in dynamic information survey, I only let respondents describe the environments instead of rating them. Therefore, measurement error has been minimized. 
