 
Computational Analysis      
Observational Data    
Kanyao Han


## Bipolarity or Diversity? Mapping The Ideological Distribution Among Well-Educated Chinese.

### Introduction to My Research Question

In recent years, especially after Xi Jinping came to power, two phenomena related to well-educated Chinese have attracted a lot of attention. On one hand, the emergence of "Little Pink", a large nationalist group mainly consists of well-educated young Chinese who usually study and live in democratic countries, confuses many well-educated liberals in China. On the other hand, a number of famous liberal scholars abandoned their previous ideas and became so-called "Chinese New Left". Now they stop their admiration for Western society to defend for Chinese political institutions and traditional cultures. Therefore, many people believe well-educated group in China has split into two bipolar parts, liberals and nationalist conservatives. However, the real world might be much more complicated than the bipolar narrative (liberal versus conservative). For example, a large percentage of Little Pinks are conservative in political issues but strongly support LGBT and feminism. On the contrary, many self-labelled liberals are relatively conservative in many sociocultural issues. In this case, the popular bipolar ideological dividing standard that can effectively describe Western society may lose its description power in China. **Therefore, my questions are whether the ideological conditions among well-educated Chinese is bipolar, and what kind of bipolarity or how diverse it is. I will take advantage of measuring big data to answer these questions.**

### Research Design
#### Data Source
I plan at first to scrape observational data from [*Douban(豆瓣网)*](https://www.douban.com/), a Chinese social network site. This SNS is the best choice for my research question for the following reasons.  

- First, its users are predominantly well-educated, including numerous college and gradate school students, academic faculty, professional staff, and so forth.    
- Second, it is not only a SNS, but also the most important rating and reviewing website for Chinese and foreign books, films, TV shows, musics. In other words, it is equal to the combination of *IMBd*, *Amazon(book)/Goodreads* and well-educated version of *Facebook*. Besides, since only registered users can rate and review books, musics and videos, it is easy to obtain the data related to their reading and watching records. Through these records, we can also indirectly evaluate people's sociocultural characteristics and even ideology.  
- Finally, governmental censorship in *Douban* is weaker than other websites. For example, most non-Chinese books, which is sensitive according to Chinese government's standard, are not forbidden there.         
#### Scraping Details
Observational data scraped from *Douban* can be divided into two parts. The first is users' posts and the second is their book/film rating and reviews.

- The posts I plan to scrape is from 2014 to present in order to avoid political and population shift (I will discuss it later).  
- As for book/film rating and reviews, I only plan to scrape rating and other basic book/film information. This is because every time when a user makes a review, it will also become his/her post. Therefore, posts have contained reviews after 2014. Rating will be divided into two parts. The first part is from 2014, which is used for identifying ideology. The second part contains all rating information that is used for identifying some users' sociocultural characteristic. It is worth noting that many films and books were published before 2014 but rated after 2014. Every rate after 2014 belongs to the first part. Since *Douban* displays not only the average rates of each book/film, but also at what time who rates which book/movie, it is easy for me to scrape all the information I mentioned above.   

Additionally, I also plan to scrape the number of users' following people. This information is used for detecting invalid data (I will discuss it later).     
#### Analysis Method
Before data analysis, I will transform the abstract concept "ideology" into a number of specific categories and events. For example, political ideology can be measured by attitudes toward Trump, immigration policy, nationalism, social inequality, and so forth, while cultural ideology can be measured by attitudes toward LGBT, marriage,  traditional cultures such as filial piety, and so forth. Every target user's relative posts will be scored by computational methods. Finally, I will map the spacial distribution of users' scores according to the above categories. It reflects the distribution of ideology.
Besides, book and film will be assigned with one or several ideological labels (such as liberal and feminism) through computational methods. Then we can infer users' ideology relying on how they rate different ideological categories of books and films. The next step is also mapping the distribution.        
Additionally, since we have two sets of data relying on non-self-rating and self-rating respectively and they are paired with each other by users, we can compare their distribution results and the correlation between two sets of paired scores. If the distributions are similar and the correlation is strong, the results of this research become more convincing.
### Advantages and Challenges   
#### Advantages
- **Big**: There is no doubt that my data is big. *Douban* has nearly a hundred million users with lots of information contained in posts, rating and reviews. As long as I need, I can also scrape detailed network data for analysis. Besides, we can also infer many information from the existing data. For example, User's major or professional identity can be detected through what book, especially textbook, he/she rates and reviews.          
- **Always-on**: Although my research does not require real-time data and not analyse longitudinal trend, always-on information can help make the data more robust. In China, there are too many fake information so that people often mistakenly criticize or support some events or people before new information emerges. Therefore, some posts in a short time period may fail to reflect users' real ideology. Always-on data in a long period can definitely reduce the negative effects from this kind of information.
- **Non-reactive**: Non-reactiveness is often a core concern when the research target is ideology measurement since many people may refuse to display their real ideology in front of researchers or other people when their ideas are largely different from the mainstream discourses. Actually, the environment in *Douban* further improves non-reactiveness. Many users indicate that they can express their own ideas more freely in *Douban* because they are in anonymity. They do make friends in this SNS, but call their friends here as "friendly stranger" and seldom ask about each other's biography. It largely reduces the pressure from acquaintance that  hinders them from displaying their authentic ideology.    
#### Challenges and Solutions
- **Incomplete**: A big problem of my observational data is missing demographic and sociocultural information. Even though I can infer some sociocultural information from other information, the inference is often unreliable. Therefore, I give up evaluating the correlation between ideology and demographic and  sociocultural elements and only explore ideological distribution.
- **Non-representative and inaccessible**: As long as we get the data from a specific website, non-representativeness caused by system bias must be considered. Although users in *Douban*, as I mentioned above, are predominantly well-educated, the vast majority of people's ages range from 20 to 40 according to official statistics. Therefore, in order to improve representation, the easiest way is narrowing the description scope of my research when I state  the  final results. Alternatively, I can also explore ideological distribution by age cohorts. The problem of this design is that age information is not openly disclosed in this SNS. Douban's administrators may decline my request although they are usually willing to cooperate with academic researchers in terms of open information. If I cannot acquire the authorization, I could only carry out the first plan.  
- **Political and user drift**: When we analyse the data scraped from website in China for ideology analysis, two considerations are very important. The first and most important factor is political drift. After Xi Jinping came to power, the political environment has changed so drastically that ideological distribution can be largely different. The second consideration is that user composition in *Douban* changed a lot during 2010 to 2013. Before 2010 only Chinese elites discussed book, film and political/social/cultural events in this SNS, while after 2010 a large amout of ordinary well-educated people began to use *Douban*. In order to avoid these two types of drifts, I choose the year 2014 as the start point, since Xi Jinping has been the president for one year and the composition of users has been stable.     
- **System drift and algorithmically confounded**: *Douban* changed the words limit of posting and review from 280 to 140 around one year ago. In order to avoid  algorithmically confounding caused by this system drift, I will adjust the technique to measure ideology. For example, the sentiment and ideology of each post will be measured according to sentiment degrees and types instead of frequency.   
- **Dirty**: There are many invalid users, reviews/posts and rates in "Douban". First, many book and film companies often hire “Internet Water Army” to rate and review books or films published by them in order to obtain a higher evaluation, because rates and reviews in *Douban* may have an effect on their sales. My solution is to exclude the users who only have very few rating/reviewing records and follow nearly no other users, given that Internet Water Army users typically only rate and review very few products and never follow other users. Second, there are many non-ideological books and films, such as mathematical textbooks and some popcorn films, that may be labelled as ideological neutrality ("non-ideological" is not the same as "ideologically neutral"). Therefore, before data analysis, I will also exclude them from my data.    
- **Sensitive**: My only concern related to sensitivity is that Chinese government may pay attention to many non-Chinese book in *Douban* and then censor them. I think I could avoid to mention them in my final research paper even though they are the very important part in my data. 


