## Proposing an survey study

**Name**: Zunda Xu (zunda@uchicago.edu)
	
**Topic:  How borrowers’ demographic characteristics affect the credit risk in Peer- to- peer lending industry in China (Conducting survey among risk analysts in P2P lending companies)**

**Background Introduction**

In last week’s assignment, we designed an observational study aiming to figure out how borrowers’ demographic characteristics affect credit risk in peer-to peer lending industry in China. We got the clients’ databases of the three largest Peer-to-peer lending platforms in recent five years from two well-known non-profit websites, and each data in our databases includes the borrower’s demographic characteristics (e.g. gender, race, annual average income, education level and etc.) and his/her loan record (e.g. loan request, the outcome of repayment and etc.). Then we picked four basic demographic characteristics of those borrowers (e.g. gender, race, annual average income and education level) as variables and measure the credit risk of each loan by its loan performance (e.g. the outcome of repayment). The basic research design that research would undertake is measuring and variable-controlling approaches, and we used Cox proportional hazards specification (Cox, 1972; Bhattacharjee et al.2007) and the Logit Regression model to analyze each variable’s influence on credit risk and test the robustness of the results we got. We hope the conclusion of this research could help those online P2P lending companies modify their risk estimation process when choosing proper borrowers and reduce the overall default rate, which will definitely be of great value for the continuous development of China’s P2P lending industry.

**Research Question**

Although the conclusion of the observational study mentioned above seems robust, it doesn’t mean that the research question “How borrowers’ demographic characteristics affect the credit risk in peer-to-peer lending industry in China” has been perfectly solved. Since the main goal of conducting such a research is to help those P2P lending companies modify their risk estimation process. To be specific, based on the conclusion of our observational study, those companies could consider adding borrowers’ demographic characteristics as indexes and in their risk estimation models. For examples, if the research got the conclusion that male borrowers are more likely to default than female borrowers, then those companies could assign a higher risk coefficient to male borrowers compared with female borrowers when estimating their credit risk. However, in practice, the risk teams in P2P lending companies only use their risk estimation results as a reference, and to some extent the approval of loans are easily influenced by the opinions of risk analysts, which means even if the risk estimation result shows that the borrower has a relatively low credit risk, the risk analysts may still be hesitate about approving the borrower’s loan request as long as they think the borrower are likely to default. Under such circumstances, the borrower’s demographic characteristics are the only information which could leave a first impression on risk analysts, and those biased first impressions may become factors that cause errors in the risk estimation process.
Hence, the former designed observational study only investigated the direct influence of borrowers’ demographic characteristics on the credit risk according to the real situation (the certain loan performance of borrowers), while as mentioned before, some specific demographic characteristics of borrowers may also influence the risk analysts’ judgment during loan approval process in those P2P lending companies, which will obviously result in a higher credit risk. However, this kind of effects can not be detected and have been neglected in our observational study, so in order to get a more comprehensive conclusion about this research question, we plan to conduct a survey among those risk analysts working in P2P lending companies, and test this indirect influence by the data we collect through the survey. Thus, in this proposal, we still choose the same question: how borrowers’ demographic characteristics affect the credit risk in China’s online P2P lending industry, but from the perspectives of risk analysts, and we believe this survey could be a good complement for this research.

**Plan for conducting survey**

***Format of the Survey:***

Recently, the government of China has published a series of policies focusing on regulating the online P2P lending industry, and one of them is that risk analyst must pass the Risk Management Certification Examination and get the national qualification before working in online P2P lending companies. This policy provides a great opportunity for us to conduct survey among those professionals and obtain the digitally-enhanced survey data we need for our research. Since the Risk Management Certification Examination is computer-delivered, we can cooperate with the department in charge of the test and append our survey as an optional and voluntary part at the end of the exam. Considering there are over 4000 online P2P lending companies in China’s domestic markets and each company employs more than 20 risk analysts, we are pretty sure the sample size could be large enough.

***Content of the Survey:***The basic design method this survey will undertake is similar to Wiki survey. Since the main goal of the survey is to test how different demographic characteristics influence the risk analyst’s first impression of borrowers, the questions in this survey are all in the format of “Which of the borrowers listed below are more likely to default?”. Each question has three choices, two of them are two borrowers’ demographic characteristics and we require the interviewers to choose the one they think is more likely to default just based on the borrowers’ demographic characteristics they received. The third choice is “I cannot decide”, if the interviewer chooses this, it implies the two borrowers are indifferent to risk analysts, in other words, they share the same default probability. Apart from the three choices, interviewers are also able to provide their reasons about their choice if they want during the survey. About the borrowers’ specific demographic characteristics existed in the choices, they are all generated from the same database we used in our first observational study. Like last time, we still choose four demographics characteristics (e.g. gender, race, annual average income and education level) as variables, then the borrowers’ information will be separated into different categories according to the standard we set up (the same as the standard we used in the former observational study) on each variables. For example, about the education level, all the data will be separated in two categories, high-level educated class contains the data of the borrowers having bachelor degrees and above, while the others will be separated into low-level educated class. Then based on variable-controlling approaches, each time we will randomly generate two pieces of data from those categories with the difference in only on specific variable. To be specific, like two borrowers with different gender but the same race, education level and annual average income level, their original information could become one question’s two choices existed in our survey, which means the choices our interviewers see in this survey are all descriptive words about borrowers’ basic situation, just as what they usually receive in their work. By this way, we are able to simulate the ordinary working environment of those risk analysts at best.

**Methods of using data**

***Data processing:***

After collecting all survey results, we will assign points to each data which has been used as question’s choice in our survey. The rule is as follows: Every time the date is chosen as more likely to default by the interviewer, it will get 2 points. If it hasn’t been chosen, it will get 0 point. If the interview chooses “I cannot decide”, both of these two pieces of data will get 1 points. The next step is calculating the total points of those data respectively. Since the full scores each data could get is two times its occurrence in our survey, we then divide the total scores that each data obtained by the full scores and get a rate for each data. We can call the rate as “predicted default rate by risk analysts. If the predicted default rate is larger than 50%, we could define the predicted loan performance of this data as “default”, otherwise it will be defined as “paid off”. After finishing all these steps, the data including borrower’s basic demographic characteristics along with its predicted loan performance calculated will be stored in a new dataset.***Data analyzing:***

After we get the new dataset, the only difference between this new dataset and the original one we used in the observational study is that we use the predicted loan performance we calculated to replace the real loan performance in each data. However, since the research question is still how borrowers’ demographic characteristics affect the credit risk in China’s P2P lending industry, we can still use the same method as the observational study to analyze the data. Based on variable-controlling approaches, we analyze four variables separately by using Logit Regression Model, since the predicted loan performance only contained two values that is “default” or “paid off”. Then we could figure out how each demographic characteristic influences the risk analyst’s prediction of credit risk. Meanwhile, we could compare the difference between the results we obtain in this study and the results of last time’s observational study, by this way, we could check whether risk analysts’ initial predictions about credit risk based on the borrowers’ demographic characteristics they received is biased or not. Last but not least, by analyzing the reasons we collected from interviewers, we could also have a better understanding about which demographic characteristics of borrowers are much more likely to result in the credit risk from the perspectives of those risk analysts.**Advantages of digitally-enhanced survey methods**

***Digitally-enhanced:***

First of all, when designing this survey, we used **Wiki surveys** as our basic model, compared with traditional survey models, Wiki surveys enable new hybrids of closed and open questions, just like in our survey, we not only provide three choices, but also allow interviewers to express their reasons. By asking questions like this, we can make our survey digitally-enhanced. Secondly, in this survey, we use the same databases as we used in the formal observational study, then extract the basic demographic characteristic of each data and set them as choices of our survey question, the way we used to link observing and asking in this research is **enriched asking**, which also will be of great help to make this survey digitally-enhanced.
***Compare survey data with observational data***

About this research question, if we just use the found data to conduct an observational study, we can just investigate relationship between borrowers’ demographic characteristics and the final credit risk, however we cannot detect the influences of risk analysts and figure out how these effects form. That’s why conducting a survey among those risk analysts could be a great complement for this research. Since the risk estimation process is not just like a machine, we input borrowers’ demographic characteristics, and then make the decision of approving the loan or not based on the output. In fact, the risk analysts’ behavior also important, thus we need conduct this survey to further improve the robustness of the conclusions of this research.***Potential Error***

The potential sources of errors mainly come from the interviewers. First of all, the survey is appended at the end of risk analysts’ certification examinations, the interviewer may still be cautions about making their choice, which means the answer “I cannot decide” may account for a large fraction in those survey. In order to minimize this error, we could set some limitation on the times of choosing “I cannot decide”. Another error may come from the interviewers’ background, to be specific, the experienced risk analysts and unexperienced risk analysts are all our potential interviewers, however, their responses may vary a lot, which could also cause some errors in this survey. In order to minimize this error, we could weight the sample based on their different backgrounds.

**Reference**:

[1] Chen, Dongyu, Xiaolin Li, and Fujun Lai. "Gender discrimination in online peer-to-peer credit lending: evidence from a lending platform in China." Electronic Commerce Research (2014): 1-31.

[2] Bit by Bit: Social research in the digital age.