**Assignment 6: The ethics of the Montana election experiment**

**Name**: Zunda Xu (zunda@uchicago.edu)

**Question 1: Assess this study suing Salganik’s four principles of ethical research**

**Answer:**

***Respect for persons:***

According to the Bit by Bit, the principle of respect for persons suggests that researchers should not do stuff to people without their consent and should let participants decide by themselves. Applying the principle of Respect for Persons to this study, the researchers conducted the experiment on 102,780 registered voters in Montana and sent them mailers which provided Montana General Election Voter Information Guide without their consent or awareness. Generally speaking, ***the design of this study has already violated the principle of Respect for persons since all the participants in this experiment were unware that they became the experiment objects, let alone they had agreed to anticipated in this study.*** To be specific, the researchers in this study used the personal information of those registered voters (e.g. name, zip codes, home address, etc.) and sent them mailers providing information guide about this election, which mean all of those register voters who have received mailers were enrolled in the environment without awareness. Although the researchers might think that this experiment was harmless or even beneficial for not only voters but also the whole election, since those voters were provided with more guide information about the candidates in this election, they were supposed to be more likely to make their decision and participate in the voting. However, the fact was that the voters were not treated as autonomous. The reason is that the mailers were labeled 2014 Montana General Election Voter Information Guide and even included a reproduction of the Great Seal of the State of Montana, voters without awareness of the experiment would definitely regard this mailer as an official document, and the content of the mail which placed the candidates on a scale from liberal to conservative even including comparisons with Barack Obama and Mitt Romney were also much likely to influence those voters’ personal judgment and change their voting decision. Under such circumstance, voters were not considered to totally decided by themselves, which definitely violated the principle of Respect for Persons. In all, the design of this study did not obey the first principle of ethical research.

***Beneficence:***

The principle of Beneficence involves two parts: do not harm and maximize possible benefits and minimize possible harms. About the first part, researchers should always keep in mind that their work should never do harm to participants, non-participants and even the social systems. ***However, in this case, it seems that the conduct of the experiment has violated the principle of Beneficence, which not only harm some participants (e.g. registered voters who received mailers in this experiment), but also do harm to some non-participants, such as candidates in this election. Even worse, the design of this study might bring in the risk of disrupting an election.*** All of these have stricken an appropriate ethical balance. Specifically, to those registered voters, most of them might mistake the mailers for an official guide sent by the government of the State of Montana, and they felt that the graph appeared to create a partisan alignment of the candidates, in other words, they might think the government shouldn’t interfere in their voting decision by sending them those mailers, and to some extent, their right to vote had been invaded, that’s why these mailers could generate a lot of complaints from Montana voters. Besides, the study also does harm to the benefits of those candidates. Since the mailer included a graph that ranked judicial candidates on a scale from liberal to conservative, when the voters received these mailers and saw the graph, they would view the graph as a ranking based on the candidates’ decisions or public positions. Thus, voters identified as likely liberal to centrist leaning are highly possible to vote for the candidate who was also listed on the left of graph (e.g. more liberal), the same situation would occur among voters identified as likely conservative to centrist leaning. As a result, the benefits of some candidate were harmed by this experiment. Meanwhile, the study also put this nonpartisan election under the risk of injustice and becoming a partisan election, which definitely does harm to the whole social systems in the State of Montana. To put it in a nutshell, the research has violated the principle of Beneficence.

***Justice:***

The principle of Justice is about the risks and benefits of research are distributed fairly. Applying the principle to this case, first of all, for voters who received mailers in this experiment, they bear the burdens of the research, and most of them might feel their right to vote had been invaded compared with other voters who hadn’t received mailers, however, those group of voters were not compensated appropriately, from this point of view, it seems the study hasn’t follow the principle of justice strictly. 

Secondly, we want to assess the risks and benefits of those candidates, in order to measure that, we need to figure out whether the mailers were sent to a random sample of voters first. If the voters were chosen by using stratified random sampling, which means voters identified as liberal to centrist and voters identified as conservatives to centrist did not have the equal probability to be chosen in the experiment, it may hard to say the risk and benefits are not distributed equally. Even if we suppose the guide information had an effect on voters’ decision, which means voters identified as liberal (conservatives) preferred candidate who was labeled more liberal (conservatives), since the voters were chosen randomly, the conduct of this experiment might not disrupt the outcome of the election, in other words, bring more risk or benefits to some specific candidate, however, if the voters were not chosen by stratified random sampling, under this circumstance, the risk and benefits of candidates re not distributed equally any more, and the candidate who bears the burden of this study also did not receive any compensation, which means the study violates the principle of Justice again, thus we need to modify this assessment.

Another doubt is why choose the State of Montana to conduct this experiment. About this question, we may find out the answer from the article written by Richman in 2015, Dan Schunar raised the question about the issue of Justice by implying that the researchers chose to send out mailers in the State of Montana instead of other states after much deliberation, just because they thought citizens in Montana were less political intellectual. Therefore, if we assess this study from the perspective of the social systems, the experiment was much likely to disrupt the outcome of this nonpartisan election and put the State of Montana under a big risk. However, the whole state did not get any compensation from researchers. From this point of view, this study also violated the principle of Justice.

***Respect for law and public interest:***

According to Bit by Bit, Respect for Law and Public Interest has two distinct components: compliance and transparency-based accountability. Compliance means that researchers should obey relevant laws, contracts and terms of service. However, in this study, the Commissioner of Political Practices of the State of Montana has determined that the researchers violated Montana law: “The Commissioner determines that there are sufficient facts to show that Stanford, Dartmouth and/or its researchers violated Montana campaign practice laws requiring registration, reporting and disclosure of independent expenditures.” Meanwhile, whether the unauthorized use of the Great Seal of Montana violates Montana state law is still under investigation, and it’s highly possible that this behavior also violates the local law. Hence, it’s obvious that this study hasn’t show enough respect for the state law. About the second component--transparency-based accountability, it means that researchers need to be clear about the goals, methods and results at all stages of their research process and to take responsibility for their actions. However, in this study, from the open letter written by these two universities, we could find that the researchers hadn’t expected that their experiment would generate the confusion among voters, which means the researchers in this study hadn’t considered thoroughly about the potential results before conducting this experiment. Although, from the perspectives of public interest, a strong argument can still be made in defense of this study, the researchers should always keep in mind that any study should include law in their considerations, and they should think thoroughly at the study-design stage. In other words, those researchers could totally avoid violating laws if they could modify their design of experiment, and I am pretty sure they could still obtain the conclusion they want if they conduct this experiment in a more appropriate way.

**Q2: Conditions under which this experiment could effect the outcome of the election.**

**Answer:**

The first condition is that the random sampling of the voters was not stratified by registered voters’ political affiliation, for example, the voters identified as liberal to centrist was overrepresented in the sample population compared with voters identified as conservative to centrist, then the outcome of the election might have been altered if we supposed that the mailer did have a significant influence on voters’ decision. Since before receiving these mailers, voters might not take the candidates’ political affiliation into consideration, some voters identified as liberal might still vote for candidate ranked on the right (e.g. represents conservatives) in this election, however, when those voters received the mailer including the graph listing candidates on a scale from liberal to conservative, voters were high probable to have an inclination towards the candidate who had relatively same political affiliation with them. And if one group of voters with specific political affiliation was overrepresented than the other group, such as voters identified as liberal to centrist was totally overrepresented, then the candidate who was ranked to the left on the graph was much likely to win more votes than he or she supposed to win without this experiments, thus the outcome of the election might be altered under this condition.

Another condition is that the information guide provided by these mailers did have a significant influence on promoting more eligible voters to vote in this election, which means some voters were not intended to vote in this election since they were not able to make their choice, however, when they received the mailers and view the graph labeling candidates’ political leanings, especially even including the comparison with Barack Obama and Mitt Romney, just the same situation discussed in the first condition, those voters with the additional information about candidates were much more likely to have their inclination towards candidates who shared the same political leanings with them and change their previous decision of not voting, instead voting for their preferred candidates. Under this condition, the outcome of the election may also be altered by this experiment.

**Q3: If the mailers were not sent to a random sample of voters, does this change your assessment of the research design.**

**Answer:**

In general, the information will not change me assessment of the research design.  Under this situation, the mailers were not sent to a random sample of voters and among all participants, voters identified as liberal to centrist leaning were about twice as much as voters identified as conservative to centrist, however, the justification about the disparity given by researchers does not provide strong proof that the sampling of voters was chosen by stratified sampling. The reason is just the researchers anticipated turnout to be significantly lower among Democratic voters, however, it’s still doubtful whether their anticipation was accurate, and this sampling method was also highly possible to result in the disruption of the election, in other words, more voters identified as liberal received mailers in this experiment might bring additional benefits to candidate who was labeled more liberal in the graph and do harm to “conservative” candidate. Thus, given this information, I might do some modification to my assessment about the principle of justice, that is the study had violated the principle of justice. As for the assessment about the other three principles, I will keep them unchanged.

**Q4: Not Closely Contested**

**Answer:**

According to the response made by researchers, they picked this election because “neither judicial race had been closely contested in the primary”, it seems that those researchers have considered the potential harm this experiment may do to the election, so to some extent, I may improve my assessment about the principle of Respect for public Interest, but as discussed in the first part, since the analysis was based on the past election data, and as a democratic process, it may hard to use past data to anticipate the risks and outcomes of a new election, and those researchers also didn’t expect the confusion this experiment caused to those voters, the design of the study still violated the principle of Respect for Public Interest. Meanwhile, the researchers also determined that the research study as designed would not change the outcome of either contest, so I may also improve my assessment about the principle of Beneficence, I will reduce the possibility that this experiment might disrupt the outcome of the election.

**Q5: Not Closely Contested**

**Answer:**

The actual outcome of the election will not change my assessment of the research even if the it turned out to be not particularly close. First of all, it’s hard for us to determine whether the mailers have indeed disrupted the outcome of this result, since from all the information provided, if we suppose the mailers had influenced the outcomes of the election, the actual outcome could still support our assumption. To be specific, in the sample of participants, voters identified as likely liberal are about twice as much as voters identified as conservative, according to our assumption, voters who received mailers would prefer the candidates who had the same political affiliation with them, and that can explain why Jim Rice received more votes than W David Herbert, since Jim Rice was more likely liberal than W David Herbert. Thus, the actual outcome will not change my assessment of this study. Besides, the outcome of the election had not yet been decided and therefore, post-hoc results should not be taken into consideration when we assess the ethics of a study, all the study should obey the basic four principles of ethics when they are designed. In all, the actual outcome of this election will not change my assessment of this study.

**Q6:CrowdPAC**

**Answer:**

The information that one of the principal investigators for this study is also the co-founder of CrowdPAC will change my assessment of the study and raise additional ethnic concerns about the principle of Beneficence. As an academic research, the study should purely be an investigation of deeper insight and new findings towards the democratic process, however, there will be definitely some conflict of interest if the achievement along with its data are used directly by this for-profit company CrowdPac to generate process. Thus, if the investigators planned to use the data and findings of this study to generate profits for his company, also if there are no specific protection policy laid out to protect the specific data collected by this experiment, then the researchers in this study definitely violated the principle of Beneficence.  Meanwhile, I will also change my assessment about the principle of Justice, since under circumstance, the benefits of the study were actually taken by CrowdPAC while the candidates along with the whole social systems undertook the whole risk, thus the design of the study also definitely violated the principle of Justice. 

**Q7: What would you do differently.**

**Answer:**

If I were the principal investigators, I would do differently in the following several aspects:

First of all, when designing the study, I would review the local law and talk with relevant authority department to figure out what kind of procedures we should complete in order to make the study legally. Thus, reaching an agreement with the local government and completing the related procedures (such as registration, reporting) are the first step I would like to do if I were the principal investigators, meanwhile, I would also submit the design of this study to the respective IRB Councils at Dartmouth and Stanford and get their approval before starting this research. Through this way, we could avoid violating the principle of Respect for law. 

Secondly, before conducting the experiment, I would choose some potential participants and consult with them in order to obtain some form of consent from participants. Obviously these voters who I had talked to would not be chosen as the participant when conducting the experiment, but all of the participants would be informed of the reason why they received the mailer and make some explanation that they were chosen as experiment subjects in this study after the election immediately. By doing this, we could avoid violating the principle of Respect for Persons. 

Thirdly, I would do differently in sampling, I would use stratified random sampling method, and take the distribution of the registered voters’ political affiliation into consideration, besides, I would reduce the sample size. By doing these, just as discussed previously, we could minimize the potential risk of disrupting the outcome of this election. Meanwhile, I would modify the design of mailers, such as not using the reproduction of the Great Seal of the State of Montana, not including Barack Obama and Mitt Romney as comparisons, making more detailed clarification about how we ranked the candidates (e.g. not based on the candidates’ decisions or public positions) and etc. However, from my point of view, the best solution is that we should choose some other additional information as the information guide (such as the basic introduction of candidates) rather than the graph listing the rank of those candidates on a scale from liberal to conservative. All of these modifications will assure the study obey the principle of Justice.

Last but not least, if I were the principal investigators, I would take the compensation into consideration, to be specific, we should provide not only all the participants (e.g. voters received mailers), but also those candidates some appropriate compensation, since all of them are likely to bear the burden of the research and even be harmed by this experiment. Besides, since the conduct of this experiment are still possible to disrupt the outcome of the election, the state government also deserves some compensation. I believe all of this could make this study meet the requirement of the principle of Beneficence.

To put it in a nutshell, if possible, I would do something differently and design the study as discussed above if I were interested in this topic, and I believe all of those modifications based on the previous study will continually mitigate the possible ethical issues and still help us obtain the conclusion we want.

**References:**

[1] Salganik, Matthew J. (2017) Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

[2] Richman, J. (2015). Stanford and Dartmouth researchers broke law with election mailer, Montana official says. The New York Times.
