## Proposing an survey experiment

**Name**: Zunda Xu (zunda@uchicago.edu)

**Topic: Discriminations about borrowers’ demographic characteristics in risk estimation process of China’s online P2P lending companies****Background Introduction**

In assignment 1, we designed an observational study using borrowers’ databases of three largest Peer-to-Peer lending companies obtained from two well-known non-profit websites, aiming to figure out the correlation between borrowers’ four specific demographic characteristics (e.g. gender, race, annual average income and education level) and their credit risk (which is represented by borrowers’ loan performance) in China’s P2P lending industry. However, the observational study cannot detect and neglect the effects of risk analysts’ behavior in those online P2P lending companies. As a matter of fact, borrowers’ demographic characteristic may easily shape a biased first impression in risk analysts’ mind, which may also influence those analysts’ judgment and estimation of the real credit risk of borrowers. Thus, in assignment 2, we conducted a survey using the same data of borrowers’ demographic characteristics extracted from our original databases to test risk analysts’ first impression. In this survey, interviewers were given two different borrowers’ personal information each time, and they were asked to choose which one would be more likely to default or could not decide. Then we processed the survey results and calculated each borrower’s “predicted” loan performance, which could help us figure out whether there existed some biases between risk analysts’ first impression and the real situations by using the same methods as the first week’s observational study. In all, these two studies are complementary and we hope our conclusions could help China’s online P2P lending companies to reduce their overall credit risk by improving risk estimation process, such as assigning different risk coefficient to borrowers with different demographic characteristics in Risk Analysis Model, training risk analysts to make their judgment without prejudice to borrowers with specific demographic characteristics, etc. 

**Research Question**

Although the conclusions we obtained from the previous two studies seem to be robust, some new doubts may still be raised about the strictness of our research. There are mainly two problems, the first one is the validity of the data we used.  Since the registration information of borrowers hasn’t been strictly verified until this year, that means it’s possible for someone to register with fake information. In fact, that’s a common phenomena existing in nowadays P2P lending industry in China, some borrowers just use fake personal information to open several accounts on the same platforms in order to request for multiple loans at the same time. Usually this kind of borrowers are more likely to default, since even if they don’t pay back the money at the end of loan term, those companies can hardly find them through the fake information they left. Thus, the databases we obtained may include some invalid data which would definitely influence the accuracy of the results. Another problem is that the previous two studies can not let us know the mechanism behind our previous research question. In fact, we can illustrate the mechanism of our research question “how borrowers’ demographic characteristics affect the credit risk” by using a flowchart, and the flowchart consists of three parts: borrowers’ demographic characteristics, risk estimation process and credit risk. Obviously, we can easily understand the mechanism of the latter part in this flowchart, that is: the overall credit risk depends on the accuracy of risk estimation process, the more accurate the risk analysis results are, the lower credit risk those companies will have. However, the mechanism of the first part is obscure. Under such circumstances, we need to investigate the correlation between this two part. To be specific, we need to figure out whether the risk estimation process is fair to each borrower regardless of his/ her demographic characteristics. So the research question is whether there are discriminations about borrowers’ demographic characteristics in risk estimation process of China’s online P2P lending companies, and we can conduct the following experiment to solve the problems above.

**Plan for experiment**

***Recruit participants:***
About the participants of this experiment, since we have already obtained a large databases including borrowers’ personal information, it’s meaningless to recruit some new borrowers as our participants. However, as discussed above, the problem of using existed database is that we cannot determine the validity of those borrowers’ personal information. Under this circumstances, we need to verify those data by checking those borrowers’ personal information with their national identification number. After removing all fake data, we can use the remainder randomly as the participants of our experiment.***Randomize:***
After verifying the validity of the data and deleting all the fake data in our original database, we get a totally new clean database as our participant pool. Then we could separate all the data into three groups according to each borrower’s loan interest rate, which includes “low interest rate”, “regular interest rate” and “high interest rate”. Borrower with low interest rate means he/she has relatively lower credit risk, while borrower with regular loan interest rate means he/she has relatively medium credit risk and borrower with high loan interest rate means he/she has relatively high credit risk. Then we randomly choose borrowers from each group as three different groups of participants in this experiment.***Deliver treatments:***
Since the main goal of this experiment is to figure out whether there are discriminations about borrowers’ demographic characteristics, so the original demographic characteristics of each borrower can be seen as the pre-treatment in this experiment. And the treatments we need to deliver is changing one specific demographic characteristic of those borrowers in each group. We still choose the same variables as the previous two studies, which is gender, race, education level and annual average income.  For example, if we want measure whether there are discriminations about borrowers’ gender, we just change the borrowers’ gender from Male to female (or from female to male) in each group and keep the other three variables unchanged. After delivering treatments, we use those changed data as each borrower’s new registered information and then apply for the same amount of loan on the same online platforms as before. By doing this, we can assure that participants in our experiment experience the same risk estimation process before and after treatment.***Measure outcomes:***
After we receiving the feedback of those loan request we created from the three online P2P lending platforms, we can start measuring the discrimination about the four specific demographic characteristics respectively by using the Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition for linear regression models to compare the differences between after-treatment loan interest of each borrower and related pre-treatment loan interest. Meanwhile, we do the same analysis in each group to measure the heterogeneity of treatment effects of participants with different original risk levels. Then, we could figure out whether there are discriminations about borrowers’ demographic characteristics in risk estimation process. **Assessment of the experimental design**

***Validity:***

First of all, about the **statistical validity**, the statistical method we used in measuring the outcomes of this experiment is Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition for linear regression models, and this counterfactual decomposition technique is widely used to study mean outcome differences between groups. For example, the technique is often used to analyze wage gaps by sex or race, and in this experiment we use this method to investigate mean outcome differences between pre-treatment and after-treatment groups, which could guarantee the statistical validity.Secondly, about the **internal validity**, as discussed above, we randomly choose the participants (e.g. the data of borrowers’ personal information) of this experiment from three groups with different risk levels, which could guarantee the randomization. While the delivery of the treatment and measurement of outcomes are also designed strictly to avoid possible problems, which ensure the internal validity of this experiment.Meanwhile, about the **construct validity**, in this experiment, we use borrowers’ loan interest rate as dependent variable, since the higher loan interest rate a borrower get, the higher credit risk this borrower may have. Thus, in this experiment, the basic method we used is still variable-controlling approach, and we measured the change of dependent variable after treatment to figure out the effects of changing independent variable. In this experiment, if the differences are significant, it means the discrimination about that specific independent variable exists in the online P2P lending market. To put it in a nutshell, the data we used matches the theoretical constructs closely in this experiment, which could ensure the construct validity.Finally, about the **external validity**, as a matter of fact, the results of this experiment could be able to generalize to other situations, we can use the same methods to investigate other discrimination phenomena, such as the discriminations in job market, the discriminations in banking service, etc. ***Heterogeneity of treatment effects:***

This experiment also allows us to measure the heterogeneity of treatment effects, since the participants in our experiment are different and they are divided into three different groups according to their initial risk level, and we will repeat the same treatments in each group and measure the outcomes respectively, which allow us to measure the heterogeneity of treatment effects. To be specific, this experiment can not only help us figure out whether discriminations about gender, race, education level and annual income exist in nowadays online P2P lending market, but also allow us to study the difference of these discriminations among borrowers with different risk levels. Thus, the heterogeneity of treatment effects can be measured in our experiment.***Causal Mechanisms:***

The main goal of this designing this experiment is to investigate the causal mechanisms between borrowers’ demographic characteristics and risk estimation process. If the discriminations about borrowers’ demographic characteristics truly exist in China’s P2P lending market, the we could figure out that the specific demographic characteristics result in the injustice in risk estimation processes, which then have a directly influence on the overall credit risk in China’s online P2P lending market.**Reference**
[1] Bit by Bit: Social research in the digital age.
[2] Jann, Ben. "The Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition for linear regression models." The Stata Journal 8.4 (2008): 453-479.