## Proposing an observational study

**Name**: Zunda Xu (zunda@uchicago.edu)
	
**Topic: How lender's demographic charateristics affect the credit risk in Peer-to-peer lending industry in China**

**Introduction**:

In recent years, with the continuous economic growth of China, more and more Micro and sole-proprietorship enterprises are set up in domestic market, and the owners of these enterprises all want to seize the opportunity to expand market share in their industries. However, compared with large-scale enterprises, over 98% of those Micro and sole-proprietorship enterprises are facing more financing difficulties and can hardly raise funds to maintain their ordinary operation through traditional ways (e.g. loan from commercial bank, issue bonds etc.), due to their credit rating and solvency. Under this circumstances, peer-to-per lending (P2P Lending) start to rise and develop rapidly. With the development of Internet technology, more and more people start to know about the Internet Finance and try to open P2P Lending companies in mainland China. The convenient and effective operating mode of online P2P lending allow the owners of those Micro and sole-proprietorship enterprises get the capital they need easily. Meanwhile, the high yields also help those P2P Lending companies attract more investors. However, more and more risk issues are raised with the high-speed development of P2P Lending industry. Recently, many P2P lending companies have been involved in financial fraud cases, which bring big loss to many investors. Through investigation and research, we found that one of the main reasons is that those companies all experienced capital chain rupture due to the high default rate, which is caused by the lenders’ late repayment and definitely increases the credit risk in the whole industry.

There are some empirical studies about the credit risk issues in online P2P lending industry, some of those studies focus on analyzing the causation of the risk and the feasible measures that online P2P lending companies could take to reduce credit risks during the operation based on the Enterprise Risk Management theory, such as setting up a robust risk management framework. Some others conduct their research in the perspective of the model that online P2P lending companies used in China and make comparisons with the models used in the U.K. and United States respectively, aiming to design a specific model to reduce the risk from the system. Meanwhile, some scholars attributed the high credit risk to the lack of compliance and supervision system, thus they appealed to Chinese government to publish strict supervision policy on online P2P lending industry. However, very few of those studies pay attention to the lenders’ demographic characteristics. From my point of view, in the basic model of online peer-to- peer lending, the three ingredients: lenders, lending platforms and investors, are all latent factors for risk issues, especially the first two. Most of the empirical studies mentioned before emphasize the role of online platforms (P2P Lending companies) in reducing credit risk, while the influences of lenders are often neglected, since the mainstream view regards the lenders as a passive object which can be easily controlled as long as the system is well-designed. Under such circumstance, new doubts are raised whether lender's demographic characteristics have an effect on the credit risk in P2P lending industry. 
**Research Question**:

In fact, lender’s demographic characteristics have already been frequently discussed in the financial market, mainly used as the key factors in studying the discrimination in the financial market. For instance, Alesina, Lotti, and Mistrulli (2013) studied Italian micro-firms and found that women pay higher interest rates even if they exhibit a better credit history. Berger (1990) and Fletschner(2009) found that women are kept being more credit- constrained than men by Microfinance Institutions. Agier and Szafarz (2013) detected no discriminatory practice in the approval rate but uncovered a gender gap in loan size based on a specific database from Brazilian microfinance institution.In the study of online peer-to-peer lending market, discriminations have also been investigated. Walter (2008) investigated the issues of racial discrimination in an online lending market then got the conclusion that the discriminations could be ameliorated by competition if we reduced the interest rate for black borrowers. Sydnor and Pope (2011) discovered that loan requests with blacks are less likely to receive funding than those of whites given other conditions equal. Chen, Li and Lai (2014) found that in China’s P2P lending market, women borrowers are more likely to be funded than male borrowers, but they have to pay higher interest rates. The above research all use one of those lenders’ specific demographic characteristics (such as gender or race) to study the existence of discriminations towards lenders in the financial market, but limited studies have been conducted to investigate the the relationship between the lenders’ demographic characteristics and the credit risk in P2P lending market. Thus, in this research, we will exam the how lenders’ demographic characteristics affect the credit risk in China’s online P2P lending industry, and we hope our findings could help those online P2P lending companies modify their risk estimation process when choosing proper lenders and reduce default rate, which will definitely be of great value for the continuous development of China’s P2P lending industry.

**Data Source**:

In China’s online peer-to-peer lending market, each lender will be required to open their own account and register their basic personal information (such as Name, Identification Number, gender, race, average income, education level, etc.) before listing their loan request on the platforms, which means all of those online P2P lending companies have a client database including all its clients' information. Meanwhile, there are two well-recognized non-profit websites: [Diyiwangdai] (http://www.p2p001.com) and [Wangdaizhijia] (http://www.wdzj.com), which provide different kinds of real-time data of the whole industry for the public. Almost all the peer-to-peer lending companies in China will update their daily transaction records and client database to these two websites. Thus, we can obtain the data we need from these two websites. Considering the privacy issues, the data we obtained only needs include the following lenders’ information: gender, age, race, annual income, loan request, loan funded and the outcome of repayment. Since there are more than 4000 P2P lending companies  in China’s market, we just choose the top three largest P2P lending companies based on the volume of business and then obtain their recent five years' client database from Sep, 2012 to Sep, 2017.

**Methodology**:

After we obtain the datasets of the three chosen online P2P lending companies from two websites, the first step is to clean the data. We need to compare the two datasets of the same platform and create our own dataset which only contain the mutual data from the two datasets. Then we could obtain three new datasets of lenders’ information. In each dataset, we pick four demographic characteristics which we think are more possible to have relation with credit risk, that is gender, race, annual income and education level.  The research will take those four specific demographic characteristics as variables and examine their effects on credit risk respectively. While the effects on credit risk will be measured by the loan performance, which is shown by the the “outcome of repayment” in our datasets.  We set the following four types of outcomes: “current” means the loan hasn’t been paid off yet and we suppose its repayment will occur on time; “paid off” means the loan has been all paid off; “late” means a loan hasn’t paid off and the repayment don’t occur on time; “default” means a loan late for more than two months. After we finish the above process, we can start using our datasets.The basic research design this research will undertake is **measuring**. since we need to investigate the four different demographic characteristics’ influence on loan performance respectively, the research will use variable-controlling approaches. Each time just change one variable and control other variables equal. We use **Cox proportional hazards specification** (Cox, 1972; Bhattacharjee et al.2007) to model the time-to-default. Meanwhile, considering the outcome “current” may account for a large fraction, we can exclude such data and use **Logit regression model** to check the robustness of the results we get through our model. Through this way, we could figure out each demographic characteristic’s effects on loan performance, such as whether female lenders are more likely to default than male lenders or not, etc. Then we can get the conclusions whether those demographic characteristics of lenders have effects on credit risk. 

**Advantages and Weaknesses of the data**:

***Advantages***:

The first advantages of the data used in this research is **big**, which is demonstrated in two different ways: many lenders and lots of useful information for each lender. Since the online peer-to-peer lending is developing rapidly especially in the recent five years, and the datasets we get is also from the three largest P2P lending platforms, which can definitely ensure that the datasets include enough samples. Meanwhile, each lender’s information we obtained in the datasets are also adequate for the research. The large datasets enable us to detect small differences, especially in this research, the differences between different demographic characteristics are possibly very small, thus we need large datasets to support the robustness of the test results.
Another advantage of the datasets is **always-on**. Since we obtain our datasets from two non-profit websites which provide real-time data, and these two websites are also constantly collecting data. This always-on characteristic provides us with longitudinal data (in this research we just use a five-year-period data). Last but not least, the datasets are also **non-reactive**, since we just use the basic personal information of lenders. All of them are generally not aware that their data are being captured and they have become accustomed to this data collection.

***Weaknesses***:

There are also mainly three weaknesses of the datasets used in this research, that is **inaccessible, dirty and sensitive**. First, although those two websites are revealing the latest information of peer-to-peer lending industries to the whole public, we may still have problems in accessing the specific clients’ database of those three lending platforms because of legal issues or ethical barriers.  Second, the data in the datasets maybe dirty. Since the verification of lender’s information is not always strict during the process of registration, some lender may register with fake personal information for some reasons, therefore, some data in our datasets are probably useless for our research. About the sensitive, just because we use lenders’ personal information for our research, and all this basic information is sensitive, that is also part of the reason why our datasets may be inaccessible.

**Reference**:

[1] Agier, I., & Szafarz, A. (2013). Microfinance and gender: Is there a glass ceiling on loan size?     World Development, 42(1), 165-181. 
[2] Alesina, A. F., Lotti, F., & Mistrulli, P. E. (2013). Do women pay more for credit? Evidence from Italy. Journal of the European Economic Association, 11(s1), 45-66. 
[3] Berger, M. (1990). Sex differences in access to a small enterprise development fund in Peru. World Development, 18(5), 695-705.
[4] Fletschner, D. (2009). Rural women’s access to credit: market imperfections and intrahousehold dynamics. World Development, 37(3), 618-631.
[5] Walter, T. (2008). Competition to default: Racial discrimination in the market for online peer-to-peer lending. Business, 1-44. 
[6] Sydnor, J. R., & Pope, D. G. (2011). What's a picture? Evidence of discriminations of loan fundability in the prosper.com marketplace. Journal of Human Resources, 46(1), 53-92. 
[7] Chen, Dongyu, Xiaolin Li, and Fujun Lai. "Gender discrimination in online peer-to-peer credit lending: evidence from a lending platform in China." Electronic Commerce Research (2014): 1-31.                                       