# Final Exam: Evaluate Research Design

**Name**: Zunda Xu (zunda@uchicago.edu)

## Section 1:Summary of the Observational Study:**Background Introduction:**With the rising role of Internet Technology in this digital era, online markets have grown rapidly with its specific advantages on convenience and efficiency compared with traditional markets in many business, such as car selling, house renting and etc. Under such circumstances, many online platforms such as Amazon, eBay, existed and functioned as agencies to make connection between consumers and sellers. For those online platforms, the key factor to success is how to design their internal systems to build trust between two sides of their users (e.g. sellers and consumers), in order to facilitate the transactions. Generally speaking, the routine mechanism for building trust is users’ information disclosure, which means usually those online platforms allow and encourage their users to register their personal information, link to other social accounts and even upload their personal picture. Thus, nowadays, online markets not only contain the information of products that people are selling, also include both sellers’ and consumers’ personal profiles, which is almost equivalent to the traditional marketplaces. Although the intent of information disclosure is to build deeper trust between transaction parties, some other problems may arise under this prevalent mechanism, that is discriminations. Therefore, in the paper “Digital Discrimination: The case of Airbnb.com”, Benjamin and Michael focus on the house renting online marketplaces, the research object they choose is Airbnb.com, which was founded in 2008 and had facilitated more than two million room rentals in the past few years. By conducting an observational study, the researchers intended to investigate the extent of racial discrimination existed in this popular online rental marketplace.**Research Question:**The research object chosen in this study is online rental platforms Airbnb.com. On this websites, landlords can list their available properties for short-term tenants, which can be specific rooms in their houses they want to share with the guests or even the whole dwelling. While the guest can seek to rent those properties based on their specific preference, they can use the internal search engines and input the desired locations and dates to find a variety of properties provided by landlords and then make their own choices. Since short-term renting of private properties is usually risky, Airbnb.com has made a great effort to design its robust user reputation system including quantitative and qualitative evaluation of both landlords and tenants in order to built trust and facilitate transactions. Another prominent characteristic of its reputation system is that users can post public profiles such as their names, personal pictures, linkages of other social networks like Facebook, and etc. Frankly speaking, the disclosure of these personal information could potentially promote the trust between transaction parties, however, demographic characteristics shown in these systems could also facilitate discrimination, just the same as the discriminations existing in traditional marketplaces. To be specific, the personal pictures and first name of users shown on Airbnb.com can reveal their race, which might result in the potential racial discriminations against hosts. After observing this phenomenon, Benjamin and Michael propose their research question: whether there exists significant difference on housing charge for equivalent rental between black hosts and non-black hosts, and conduct their observational study using the dataset collected from Airbnb.com to investigate the magnitude of this racial discriminations.**Research Design:*****Source of data:***The dataset used in this research is construct by research themselves. The dataset combines pictures of all New York City landlords on Airbnb with their rental prices and information about characteristic and quality of their properties. To be specific, the dataset consists of the listings shown on Airbnb for the New York City as of July 17, 2012. For each listing, the researchers collected the price that the landlord is asking, the characteristics of the hosts (e.g. name, personal picture, social accounts), the characteristics of the apartment (e.g. the pictures of landlords’ properties shown on the websites), the number of reviews left by guests, and the average rating for each host characteristic in Airbnb’s rating system (e.g. location rating, communication rating, and etc.).***Preprocessing of Data:***
Since the research question is to investigate the extent of racial discriminations against hosts, however through the original data constructed by researchers, they can not obtain the hosts’ race information directly, so the first goal of preprocessing data is to obtain the race information from the hosts’ characteristics. Meanwhile, in order to conduct the following statistical analysis, the data used should be in the format of numeric. Some of the data from the original dataset is already numeric, like the number of rooms, the ratings of properties and etc. While some other data like pictures, should still be transferred to numeric data, and some text data like whether linkage to other social apps, whether the whole dwelling is available for renting also required pre-processing. To realize the two main goals discussed above, the researchers use a common computational social scientific method—collaboration. The researchers post two tasks on Amazon Mechanical Turk. For the first goal, the researchers hire workers to code the race of the hosts through those hosts’ public profile pictures downloaded before, by this way, the researchers could create the categorical variable of host’s race in the dataset. Another task posted on Amazon Mechanical Turk by the researchers is examining each listing’s photos of the properties. AMT workers are required to rate the quality of the listing on a seven-point scale. By this task, the researchers transferred the photos of listings into another categorical variable to represent the characteristics and quality of those properties. For those text information in data, researchers simply use dummy variables to represent them. After finishing this, a new dataset could be constructed for the further analysis.**Research Method:**The basic research design this research undertake is counting and measuring. To be specific, by using the observational big dataset constructed, the researchers first conducted a regression of price on the other variables in the dataset in order to get the determinants of price on Airbnb. The main goal of this regression analysis is to obtain the potential factors that influence the prices, since the research question is to investigate the role of race in determining price on Airbnb, thus we need to eliminate the determinant effects of other factors in our analysis. Then, researchers used the basic counting method to obtain the basic statistics of raw data about black hosts and non-black hosts respectively and represents the distribution of the rents for these two subsets.  The results of those analysis help us obtain an overall understanding of the significant difference on rents against hosts’ race, the next step is to eliminate the influence of other factors on rents to measure the specific influence of hosts’ race on the rents they obtained, the researchers using variable-controlling method to realize it. In the end, the researchers also test other racial differences using the same method to check the robustness of this study and then get the final conclusions of this study.**Research findings:**The main findings of this working paper are: (1) the price increases with number accommodated, location rating and social network presence, which are consistent with intuition. Meanwhile, the listings with high-quality photos have higher price. (2) Non-black hosts earn around 12% more for a similar apartment with similar rating and photos relative to black hosts, which implicates the racial discriminations against hosts indeed exist on Airbnb.com. However, through this observational study, we cannot distinguish the specific discrimination types, which means we cannot fully understand the mechanism under this racial discrimination phenomenon. In the discussion part of this question, the researchers first discussed whether internet reduce discrimination, and they found the benefits of online market are not always guaranteed, just like the findings from this study, there still exist racial discriminations on Airbnb.com. Secondly, the researchers also discussed the possibility for those online platforms to change their design to eliminate potential discrimination in online marketplaces, however, they found the main barrier is that no legal principle or economic incentives for those online platforms to change their design.

## Section 2:Evaluate the effectiveness of Observational study:**Evaluation on dataset:**When evaluating an observational study, we need first focus on the big data used in this study. The following part show the evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses of the dataset in this paper compared to the characteristics of big data shown in Bit by Bit. ***Compared with good characteristics of big data:***The good characteristics of big data is big, always-on and non-reactive. About the first characteristic, we found the total number of observations used in this study is 3752, which means the size of the dataset is still not big enough. In fact, the researchers just collect the data from one day’s listings on Airbnb, and also the data is only collected in one specific city that is New York, that’s the reason why the dataset is not big enough. Although the dataset has satisfied the requirement of “lots of information per person”, however, considering the sample of black hosts in the dataset is only around 259, if the dataset could be enlarged, the findings of the research will be more robust.  In the current research, since the data is only collected on a specific day and a specific place, the result may be potentially incidental. As far as I am concerned, the researchers could collect the listings on Aribnb.com from a period of time, and also from several places rather than only New York City, by doing this, the dataset could be much enlarged and the results of the study will be much more robust.Secondly, since the data was collected on one specific day, which means the dataset used in this study also doesn’t satisfy the second good characteristics of big data, that is always-on. For this study, the always-on data collection enables researchers to produce real-time measurements. To be specific, if the researchers could collect the data from Airbnb in a much longer period time to construct an always-on dataset, that means the researchers could be able to measure the trends of racial discrimination in online housing renting marketplace. For instance, whether the racial discrimination against hosts in Airbnb has been gradually eliminated, still existing or even worse. The report using longitudinal data are much likely to raise social concern about the racial discrimination in online marketplaces, just like the discussion part in this study, the social concern could be a powerful incentive for Airbnb to change their design to help eliminate potential discriminations.Thirdly, the dataset constructed in this study satisfied the non-reactive characteristics of big data, since the researches just collect the data from the listings on Airbnbs and all of the users on Airbnb are generally not aware that their data are being captured, which means they will not change their behavior during the study. Therefore, we could say that the dataset satisfied the non-reactive characteristics.***Compared with bad characteristics for Big data:***
The first bad characteristics is incomplete. In this study, the original dataset captured from Airbnb.com also incomplete for conducting the analysis, however the researchers use some other methods like collaborations to solve that. The pre-processing of dataset is the part we could learn from this study. To be specific, since the original dataset lack the race information of hosts and some pictures and text information should also be transferred to categorical variables, the researchers take advantages of AMT and hire workers to get the race information of hosts through their profile pictures. Meanwhile, another group of workers help rate the photos of properties and by this way, researchers could obtain another variable (e.g. “quality of listings”) needed in the dataset. Thus, the dataset in the research become complete after preprocessing.The second bad characteristics that the dataset in this study has is inaccessible. As mentioned in the paper, the analysis would consider both price and demand effects, however, since the Airbnb site provides limited information about demand and the company also wasn’t willing to share data for the study, the researchers have no choice but to forego analysis of consumer demand, that’s means some data the study needs is inaccessible, which make the results and findings of the research incomplete and less robust.Another bad characteristics this dataset may have is non-representative, which comes from the data collection process. As discussed before, the dataset constructed only from capturing one day’s listing in New York city from Airbnb, so the dataset may be non-representative. Since Airbnb is popular among the world, it could be better if the researchers add listings from other cities or places at the same period time into the dataset to solve the non-representative issues.The last bad characteristics needs to be mentioned is sensitive, although the personal information of users in Airbnb is posted publicly, but capturing information from Airbnb may still rise sensitive issues, since all these information is related with user’s privacy and the profits of Airbnb, however in this study, the researchers also post the pictures of hosts on another website—Amazon Mechanical Turk. To some extent, those users who posted their pictures on Airbnb might only be willing to share this private information on specific websites, rather than on other websites. Thus, the dataset and the method used in the study may results in sensitive issues.As to other bad characteristics of big data, such as dirty, algorithmically confounded, drifting, and etc., there is no strong evidence showing in this study that the dataset used has those bad characteristics, which means the dataset is still well-organized by researchers.**Evaluation on method (collaboration):**The method used in data includes counting, measuring, collaboration.  About the collaboration, since the researchers take the advantages of AMT, some doubts may raise about the validity of the MTurkers’ workers, especially for the first assignment. Since the workers are required to rate the quality of properties by the photos, however, since different people hold different view on the same photos, which means the variety could be large, which reduce the validity of these ratings. To solve this problems, the researchers could employ two worker rating the same photos, if their outcomes are different, the researchers should manually rate the photo by themselves. **Evaluation on ethics:**
The potential ethics problems this study may result is Beneficence, since the researchers conduct assignment on AMT, and these assignments include Airbnb users’ personal information and personal profiles, which may do harm to the privacy of those Airbnb users, since they haven’t allowed the photo they uploaded on the Airbnb existed in other place or other websites.


## Section 3:Summary of the experiment study:**Background Introduction:**The background of this experiment study is similar to that of Observational study discussed, before. With the dramatic change happened in recent years, online markets gradually play more and more important roles than offline market. However, the discriminations also arise in those online marketplaces at the same time due to the drawbacks of current antidiscrimination law, which can not reach those online platforms. Under such circumstances, two researchers who conducted the observational study “Digital Discrimination: The Case of Airbnb.com”, Benjamin and Michael focus on the discrimination existed in Airbnb.com. Compared with the previous observational study which mainly concentrated on the racial discrimination against hosts, this goal of this study is to investigate the existence and extent of racial discrimination against guests, and two researchers conducted a field experiment to realize this goal.**Research Question:**Different from previous observational study, this experiment study highlighted the potential racial discrimination against guests existed on Airbnb.com. Since the platform allows hosts to decide whether to accept or reject a guest after checking his or her personal profiles. Unlike traditional hotels’ model in offline market, where no hotels can reject the demand of guests after checking their names or personal profile pictures, the system designed by Airbnb for hosts to choosing guests are much likely to enable discriminations. Under such circumstances, two researchers propose their research question: whether there exists discrimination against guests on Airbnb. By conducting the field experiment shown in the paper, the findings of this study also explained the following questions, such as whether different types of hosts discriminate more, whether discrimination is more common at certain types of properties based on price or local demographics, and etc.**Research Design:*****Sample and data collection ( Recruit participants and Randomize ):***In this filed experiment, the researchers collect data on properties listed on Airbnb from five cities which rank among the top 20 metropolitan areas, and the period longitude of this dataset is a month. The goal to choose these five specifics cities is that they have different levels of Airbnb usage came from diverse geographic regions. To be specific, first of all, the dataset including the hosts’ characteristics. The actual participants in these experiment were just those hosts who listed their properties located in the chosen cities on the Airbnb in the experimental time (for hosts who had more than one listings, the researchers selected only one of them randomly). The information shown on those hosts’ profile pages was used to analyze the heterogeneity of treatment effects later, and these information includes hosts’ gender, race and age, which were all coded from hosts’ profile pictures by AMT workers just as the same method used in previous observational study, the number of properties each host offers on Airbnb, the number of reviews the host received, and etc. Meanwhile, for the further analysis of heterogeneity, the researchers also collected information about each listing, recording its price, location, number of rooms, ratings and etc. ***Deliver Treatment:***
There are four main treatment groups in this field experiment based on the perceived race and gender of the test guest accounts. To be specific, the four groups were labeled as African American males, African American females, white males and white females. Then researchers drew four lists of names based on the frequency of names existed in these four specific groups, which means the name list for white males group contains the distinctively white names that are most likely to be white male, and similarly for other three groups. After validating those name lists, the researches created 20 Airbnb accounts, identical in all respects except for guest names. The names included ten that are distinctively African American and ten distinctively white names, divided into five male and five female names with in each group. From these 20 guest accounts, the researchers sent messages to prospective hosts and each host was randomly assigned one of the 20 guest accounts. During the experiment, around 6400 messages were sent to hosts in July, 2015 and each message ask about availability of the listed property during a specific weekend in September. ***Measure outcomes:***
After delivering the treatment, the researchers tracked host responses over 30 days that follow each request, and then the researchers coded those responses into categories. The majority of responses were separated into 6 groups from “No response” to “Yes”. After finishing coding all of those hosts’ replies, the researches could start measuring their outcomes.**Research Findings:**
The statistical analysis of the outcomes of this experiment reveals the following finds in this study: (1) The mainly results is that guests with white-sounding names are accepted roughly 50 percent of the time, which is 8 percent higher than that of guests with African American-sounding names. (2)Investigating about whether different types of hosts discriminate more, and whether discrimination is more common at certain types of properties based on their characteristics, the results are remarkably persistent.(3) discriminations is concentrated among hosts with no African American gusts in their review history, while the discrimination disappears among the host who have had an African American guest in the recent past, which implicated that the discrimination is concentrated among a subset of hosts. In the discussion part of this article, two researchers continued their discussion about designing a discrimination-free marketplace, which advocates online platforms like Airbnb modify their internal system to help eliminate potential discrimination existed in nowadays online marketplace. Meanwhile, the government may also need put effort in modify the current law in order to regulate the online marketplaces, doing the same as what they have done on offline markets in the past decades.## Section 4:Evaluation of Experiment study.The main content of this study is the field experiment conducted by the researchers, thus we will evaluate the experiment from the following three parts, that are validity, heterogeneity of treatment effects and causal mechanisms.**Validity:**Statistical conclusion validityThe overall methodology the researchers used in this study is from the research of a labor market experiment by Bertrand and Mullainathan (2004), and all the statistic results were shown explicitly in this study, including all of the key statistics required for determining the outcomes, such as mean, standard error, p-value, and etc. Thus, we can say that the statistical conclusion validity is guaranteed in this experiment. ***Internal validity:***Generally speaking, the experiment conducted by the researches in this people are well designed, all of the four basic steps for conducting a field experiment are expressed explicitly in this study. Meanwhile, the researchers also point out the potential drawbacks and doubts about their design of experiment and make their own concerns and explanations. To be specific, in the step of recruit participants and randomize, the participants in this experiment are hosts on Airbnb, when choosing these participants, the researchers choose the sample from five different metropolitan cities with various levels of Airbnb usage and diverse geographic characteristics randomly, which could make the participants fully-represented. Meanwhile, some details during sampling process also deserve us to learn from, such as when using the collaboration methods through AMT, to guarantee the validity of the coding work, the researchers hired two MTurkers to assess each image. About the randomize, almost all the choosing processes in this experiment are randomized, ranging from choosing one listing for some hosts with multiple listings to choosing hosts who received guests’ messages in treatment delivery process. About the third step—delivery treatment, since the main idea of the treatment is creating Airbnb accounts using distinctively African American names and the other distinctively white names. To verify the names that they drew are distinctive enough, the researchers conduct a test before delivering the treatment, and the test results confirmed that the names were able to signal race, which assure the validity of the treatment delivery process. Last but not least, the experiment was also designed strictly to avoid possible problem in the measurements of the outcomes, discussed the potential concerns and doubts raised by readers and make a full explanation about that. All of this ensures the internal validity of this experiment.***Construct validity:***The experiment designed in this study use the methodology from a labor market experiment which was also conducted to analyze the potential discriminations in labor market. Considering the dataset collected in this research, it matched well with the theoretical constructs.  As a research in discrimination field, the experiment is well-designed, which also guarantee its construct validity.***External validity:***
As a matter of fact, the results of this experiment could be able to generalize to other situations, we can use the same methods to investigate other discrimination existed in other online marketplaces or other platforms. To put it in a nutshell, the overall experiment in this study is well-designed and valid for analyzing the potential discrimination in Airbnb.com.**Heterogeneity of treatment effects:**The experiment designed in this study not only measure the average effect, which determined the conclusion that there exists widespread discrimination against guests with distinctively African American names, but also analyze the heterogeneity of its treatment effects.  As discussed in the paper, after analyzing the main effects of this field experiment, the researches also investigate the effects by host characteristics, which checks whether the main effects obtained before would change based on the identity of the hosts, and it turned out the discrimination persists across the age categories, gender categories and other specific characteristics of hosts, but the effect can be different for different people, for instance, among male hosts, the interaction between the host’s race and guest’s race shows a widening of the race gap, whereas among females, the race gap narrows. Besides, the researchers also analyze the effects by listing characteristics, and check the robustness of the main effects across the listing characteristics, and found the discrimination also does not vary based on the cost or location of the property. The last but not least, another important conclusion obtained from this study also shows that the experiment displays the heterogeneity of treatment effects, that is discriminations is concentrated among hosts with no African American gusts in their review history, the conclusion fully expressed that discrimination only existed in some subset of hosts in Airbnb, in turn it shows that for different people, the treatment effects are different.**Causal Mechanisms:**The main limitation of the experiment is that the mechanism causing racial discrimination against guests cannot be identified. As mentioned in the article, the authors of this paper also admit that their findings cannot identify whether the discrimination is based on race, socioeconomic status or a combination of these two. Meanwhile, similar to the previous observational study, the experiment also can not distinguish the discrimination between statistical and test-based discrimination. However, the findings in the study also implied that different hosts may use different statistical models as they evaluate potential guests, which make it more difficult to figure out the real causal mechanisms of the racial discrimination existed on Airbnb.**Evaluation on Ethics:**
There are two potential ethics problems existing in this research, the first one is about respect for persons, since the researchers conduct experiment on those hosts in Airbnb without get their permission or agreement, which violates the principle of respect for persons. The second is about the principle of Beneficence, although the researchers have tries their best to eliminate the potential bad effects raised by this experiment, the participants in this experiment may still feel being harmed since the message they received was from fake guests, and all the process is just a experiment.

## Section 5:Value-added of both research designsIn general, the main goal of both observation study and experiment study is to investigate the existence and extent of discrimination in online marketplaces, especially on Airbnb.com. However, the main difference is two research conducted from difference perspectives. To be specific, the observational study stands on the perspective of hosts in Airbnb, and focus on the potential racial discrimination against hosts, by using dataset captured from Airbnb.com, the researches analyze the relationship between rents and hosts’ race, and obtain the conclusion that black hosts earn less than non-black host. While the experiment stands on the perspective of guests, by conducting the experiment, the researchers also verified the existence of discrimination against guest, which means guests with distinctively African American names were more likely to be rejected by hosts than guests with white names. As a matter of fact, the two studies are value-added to each other, and by running both studies, we could obtain a more robust conclusion.**The value-added of experiment study to observational study:**
First, we consider the extra value that experiment study brings to the previous observational study. If we only run the first observation study, although we captured information from Airbnb.com and constructed a powerful dataset, we can only determine whether there exists discrimination against hosts, by analyze the relationship between the observed price of properties listed on the websites and the hosts’ race. While the main goal of the study is to investigate the existence of discrimination in Airbnb, to proof this, we need consider both major parties in the online markets, in other words, the observational study can only help us determine the discrimination against hosts, and we cannot figure out whether there exists discrimination against guests in Airbnb, and usually we will more concern about the potential discrimination against guests. However, since we cannot track the hosts’ decision through observational data, which makes it impossible to detect the potential discrimination among hosts against guests, fortunately, that’s just what the experiment study can bring to the observational study. Meanwhile, the observational can only help us understand some superficial relationship or correlations between the variables, it’s hard for us to analyze the causal mechanism and heterogeneity behind the discrimination, however experiments can help us to obtain a better understanding on that.**The value-added of observational study to experiment study:**As far as I am concerned, the observational study can be viewed as a trigger of the experiment study, which means the observational study helps the researchers obtain a basic understanding about the existence of discrimination in Airbnb, however, after realizing observational study cannot be used to investigate the discrimination against guests, under such circumstances, the researchers design this field study. Meanwhile, if we only run the experiment study, it also impossible for us to understand the potential discrimination against hosts, since the method of conducting an experiment cannot be used to detect it. The main reason is that much more serious outcomes might arise if we created hosts’ account with different races and deliver the treatment, since the likely outcomes and bad effects of this experiment are not under control. Thus, the observational study is also a good complement for the experiment study.To put it in a nutshell, if we only run one specific study, we can only obtain one-side conclusion, that is whether discrimination against hosts or against guests existed in Airbnb, for this research, the one-side conclusion is not enough and robust. Since the two study could add value to each other, running two study is a better choice for this research question.## Section 5:Create a digitally-enhanced Survey design:About the primary question of interest from these two papers, which is whether there exists discrimination in Airbnb, though two study obtain the conclusion that there exists discrimination against hosts and against guests respectively, both of these previous two study have the similar limitation, that is the casual mechanism of the discrimination cannot be determined. To be specific, the type of discrimination cannot be identified, for instance, about the discrimination against hosts, we cannot identify whether it’s taste-based discrimination or statistical discrimination. Under such circumstances, we can create a digitally-enhanced survey to obtain a better understanding about the mechanism of the discrimination from both sides, which means interviewing both potential guests and hosts of Airbnb online.**Plan for conducting the survey:**Format of the survey:The main goal of this survey is to investigate whether there exist discriminations in Airbnb, thus we need to conduct two surveys, one is for testing the potential discrimination against hosts and another one is for testing the potential discrimination against guests. Both of the survey will be in the format of online survey conducted through Amazon Mechanical Turk, the reason why we choose AMT as the platforms to conduct the survey is that we could better control the sample of our interviewers and make it correspond with the previous two study. To be specific, if we want to determine the potential mechanism of guests’ discrimination against hosts, we could set the filter condition about the region of the MTurkers who can attend this survey, to correspond with the data used in the observational study, we can set the region of attendants as “From New York”, while the survey conducted for potential hosts of Airbnb should set the region as five specific cities that the researchers collected data from. Some one may concern about the sample size will not be large enough for our analysis, from my point of view, if we just want to investigate the existence and potential causal mechanism of discrimination in Airbnb, we can also view the survey as an independent research, under such circumstance, we do not need to set region limitation among MTurkers. But if we want to compare the result with the two previous study, we still need to concern about set the above limitation. Besides, through AMT, we can also make sure the participants of these two surveys are totally different, which could help us avoid the situation that the potential guest and potential host are the same person.**Content of the survey:**
First of all, the name of these two survey posted on AMT will explicitly express that the survey is conducted for existing Airbnb hosts and Airbnb guests, which can help us to attract the real users of Airbnb to attend this surveys. To guarantee the quality and validity of these two surveys, we could also set the first question of each surveys as “how frequently you use Airbnb?” and this question can also be used as a filter to construct the database we used in the analysis. Secondly, the basic design method this survey will undertake is Wiki survey. For the survey conducted for potential guests, we could use the same method as the observational study to construct the database of hosts’ characteristics and information of their listings, and conducting the same analysis, the results of the analysis will be used to generate the choices of our questions in this survey. To be specific, the question will be in the format of “which of the properties listed below will you prefer?” and there are three choices, the first two choices are the properties information and the personal profile of their hosts, to control variables, these two properties will have similar characteristics (e.g. location, ratings and etc.), and the differences are the different price and the hosts’ race (e.g. non-black and black). The reason why we could generate this two choice is based on the observation and the results obtain from our database (similar to the conclusion from the observational study, that is hosts with different races will have different rents controlling that the characteristics of their properties are similar). The third choice is “no preference”.  Only if interviewers choose the non-black host’s property, another question will be shown in the survey, that is they will be asked why they prefer the one they have chosen, two choices will be provide, one related to test-based discrimination such as “a preference not to stay with a black host”, another will be related to statistical discrimination such as “the property has better quality”, meanwhile, this question also provide another choice for interviewers to fill in their own reasons. About the survey conducted for hosts, we could use the same methods as the experiment study used to use some distinctively African American names and distinctively white names to create airbnb accounts, and the question of in the survey is in the format of “if both of the guests listed below want to rent your house, which one will you prefer?”  There are still three choices, the first two choices are guests’ account snapshots only with their names, one is distinctive African American name, another is distinctively white name. The third choice is “Cannot decide”. The same as survey for guests, if interviewers choose the white one, anther question will be asked about the reason why they choose this one. **Measure the outcomes:**
After we receiving the results, we can count the overall number of each choice, which can help us to determine whether there exists discrimination against hosts and guests in Airbnb, also by analyze the reasons about why they make the choice, we can obtain a better understanding about the potential causal mechanism of the discrimination.**Potential drawbacks and how could we overcome it:**
The main potential drawbacks is the sample size might be not large enough, since not all the users of AMT are also users of Airbnb, the drawbacks may especially significant in the survey conducted for hosts. There are two possible ways to improve and modify our survey, the first is extend the survey time, which means allow more MTurkers to participate in this survey. Another possible way is send some advertisements to hosts on Airbnb, and encourage to take part in our survey by giving some extra bonus.Another potential error is the interviewers may realize the survey is about racial discriminations, which make them change their behavioral and answer the question dishonestly, or choosing many “No preference” or “Cannot decide”.  To solve this problems, we could filter out the surveys which contains the answers of “ No preference” and “Cannot decide” more than the threshold we set.