## Background

Over the last 20 years, the United States has consistently been ranked in the top 10 countries in the world for percent of population classified as obese, and currently ranks 9th, after several tiny Pacific Island nations.  Given the large population of the US, a shocking 36.5 percent of US adults are considered obese (CDC). This has led to a lot of backlash aimed in particular, at fast food restaurants.  Numerous public health initiatives have been created to attempt to combat American obesity. Highly publicized campaigns include such as first lady Michelle Obama’s “Lets Move” encouraging American children to eat healthier and increase physical activity, or more controversial attempts such as some cities levying the “soda tax” on gigantic “Big Gulp” type soda servings have ensued.  One other such way to combat obesity has been a mandatory calorie labeling. Starting in approximately 2008, certain states like New York began to create legislation that required labeling calories at chain restaurants. However, since certain states had to label calories and other states did not have this requirement, a natural experiment was created about how calorie labeling affects choice of food when calorie content is clearly available to the consumer. Preliminary evidence has been mixed about how effective calorie labeling has been, but it does seem to lean toward people choosing food with a lower number of calories. A large scale experiment would be especially effective at demonstrating this effect. This experiment proposes to work with the fast food chain McDonald’s and compare how caloric ordering at McDonald’s locations changed after the labeling of calories began to take place.


#### Research Question

How does labeling calories on the menus of food chains affect the number of calories ordered per customer?


## Experimental Research Design

The experiment I propose is a mixed design. The experiment will be conducted at all McDonald’s locations across two cities, New York and Boston. The experiment will be conducted at three time intervals, 2007, 2008 and 2017 in order to examine long-term impact of mandatory calorie labeling. All data collected will take place in the month of October in order to maintain consistency across seasons. The experiment will compare within McDonalds restaurants in New York (before and after required labeling), and between subjects across cities. The outcome that will be measured is the number of calories ordered per customer.
 


## Justification of your research design

There has been a fair amount of literature on the effect of labeling calories on the menus of food chains. Most of the previous literature shows a small, but robust impact on the number of calories ordered mostly in the form of food purchased (there is little to no impact on calories ordered in regards to drinks). Looking at the outcome of this experiment 10 years later could also indicate some of the long-term impact from mandatory calorie labeling. The largest of these studies was a within subjects design using transactions at Starbucks across the United States. Chain restaurants are indeed curious about how this rising legislation will impact customer preferences both currently and heading into the future. Any evidence about the impact from sales could be insightful to businesses in introducing new products or eliminating old ones. The United States government is also interested in whether their legislation has an impact or not. If the effect of mandatory calorie labeling is not substantial, Congress may consider searching for another way to protect American health. The proposed experiment would be symbiotic for all parties involved at little to no cost and little to no risk for McDonald’s customers.

It is also fortunate that McDonald’s main headquarters is only about an hour drive away from the University of Chicago, so in order to get access to the data set, the best course of action would be scheduling a meeting with their management team. As previously stated, a similar experiment has been conducted with Starbucks locations who kept records of their customers. It is expected that McDonald’s, the largest food chain in the world, would keep records of similar quality too.


## Strengths and Weaknesses of this design

The strengths of this experiment are many. Firstly, the mere fact that McDonald’s is such a huge franchise with thousands of customers daily, allows for the experiment a have very large sample of data to work with. Just by examining the ordering patterns of the New York location, the sample will be large enough that it will pick up any minute differences in ordering patterns. If caloric labeling has any impact at all, then this study should be able to find a statistically significant difference based on its sheer size.

The mixed design also is a strength of this experiment. The mixed design allows for both the strengths of a within subjects experiment design and the strengths of a between subjects experiment design. The within subjects design is made possible by reusing the New York restaurants at three time intervals, meaning that it is likely many of the same customers will be there at the three different time points. If labeling calories indeed does have an impact of caloric ordering, the New York restaurants will show this with extreme precision. Likewise, the Boston locations in this experiment that act as a control group (and therefore make this a between subjects experiment as well) may offer protection against confounding factors that may normally be a disadvantage to a within subjects experiment design.

One potentially confounding part of the experiment is the location of the franchises. The McDonald’s locations in New York likely will experience an influx of tourists during the holiday months which could add noise to the results. Similarly, if there were less tourists even during off-season months (because of something out of the ordinary -- like terrorism scares) or if there is a lot of news surrounding a certain food group carried at McDonalds that might cause a reduction in sales volume for example e coli contaminated ground beef, Mad Cow, Avian Flu or the type of saturated cooking oils used in fryers – all could affect consumer food purchasing habits and throw off the results of the study. Because of this I propose that the measures of McDonald’s locations are done at time points a year apart from each other. This is not a perfect remedy, but it is the best possible as it limits some of the seasonality difference. Similarly, if the franchise was running a promotion on specific foods such as $1 cheeseburgers, this could also confound results, and is also something for conductors of the study to be aware of.

Similarly, healthy food eating doctrines could gradually become more persuasive across the longer time horizon. This would limit the experimental design, because the independent variable would not be as impactful as predicted. Fortunately for the experiment, no further legislation besides mandatory calorie labeling has been made impacting chains, so the independent variable should still be fairly salient. 

I expect that the results of this experiment to generally be strong in external validity. The results from studying McDonald’s will likely be applicable to the changes we could expect to see in other food chains. However since most McDonald’s customers are repeat customers, people may already know their favorite things to order which would slightly minimize the effect. Likewise, because most customers order off the large menu behind the counter (or the large menu at the drive through) likely with a time constraint due to long lines, the results may be a little different than one would expect from a chain restaurant like Applebee’s where customers are sitting down with their own individual menus, and have more time to consider the menu items and the corresponding caloric value.



 