Proposing a survey studyJie HengMACS 3000 # Parental Influences in Academic Performance of High School Students## IntroductionParents’ behaviors and habits influence their children in numerous ways. It is commonly believed that the more time parents involved in their children’s study, the higher score children will get at school. When parents talk to their children about school, set a goal or have an expectation for them to perform well, and help them plan for college, their children can have a stronger motivation for study and work hard. Parents’ influences may make a difference in education. ## Research QuestionMy research will explore parents’ role in high school education. The research questions are two folds: for high school students in American, does parental influences students’ academic performance? How parental involvement influence students’ academic performance? Before I go any further, there are two key words in the questions needed to be explained.### Parental influencesIn this research, parental influences have been taken as important variables to understand their contribution to academic performance. For this research, parental influences will include parental expectation, parental pressure, parental involvement and parental support.  ### Academic achievementAll selected students are required to take a unified test developed by Educational Testing Service(ETS). The exam includes reading and mathematics exam, which can test students’ comprehensibility and quantitative analysis ability. A standardized composite score will be used to measure student’s academic achievement.  The unified test makes sure the research fairly measures students' academic performance.## Research Design### ParticipantsNon-probability sampling will be utilized in this research. The participants(high school students) are selected randomly. Getting the consent from all participants, their parents and schools will be the first step of this research. They will be assured that all information will be kept confidential. ### Digitally-enhanced survey designThe survey is digitally-enhanced and consisted of two parts. The first part uses Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) method, the second part uses Wiki survey method. #### Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA)The first part of survey is designed to measure parental involvement. I will use a mobile application to do the survey. The application is specifically designed for this research. Students will be asked to use the application to record the time they discuss programs or any subjects related to their study with their parents and when their parents help them with their homework and studies every day.  By using the application, students are able to spend less than three minutes reporting their parents’ involvement in a timely manner, focus on the very recent behavior and also record the parental influence over time. The necessities to use EMA are avoiding bias and obtaining a larger sample. If the research conducts a traditional survey, it is highly possible that students might provide inaccurate information, for example, they might report more parental involvement or much less. By asking students to record parental involvement using the application could avoid self-reported bias and obtain more accurate data. Plus, it is convenient for researcher to reach a larger sample size and collect data.#### Wiki surveyAll participants are asked to do an online survey, which is aimed to get information about the influence of parental support, parental pressure, parental expectation on participants. The benefits of online survey includes: convenient in collecting and analyze data, reaching a larger sample and relieving participants nervousness and anxiousness.  This survey will use wiki survey methods. It has the following questions:1. Do your parents set a academic goal for you to achieve at school? If your answer is yes, what is(are) the goal(s)?     	2. Do your parents punish you when they are not satisfied with your academic performance?  If your answer is yes, what do they do?	3. Have you felt the academic pressure from your parents? If you answered yes, what things your parents do make you feel pressured?4. Do your parents reward you when you make a progress or get a higher score? If you answered yes, what rewards do you usually get?5. Do your parents attend your school's parent's meeting? 6. Do your parents attend your school's events? The first question will provide information about parental expectation. The second and third are questions about parental pressure. The fourth, fifth and sixth are designed to get information about parental support.  A literary review is needed. Having compared with the previous research, options might be added and more questions might be provided. Though the  questions may change, the wiki survey will not, as it allows the researcher to learn things that did not come up to the mind at the beginning of this survey. No matter what changes are made, finishing this survey will not take participants more than five minutes. ### MeasurementThe first part of survey will last for half a year to get an average parental involvement time for each participant. After collecting the data, a parental influences scale can be drawn, including parental expectation, parental pressure, parental involvement and parental support. Finally, combined with students' ETS test results, I could get the answer to the research question.## Discussion### Compare with observational studyConducting a survey in this research is necessary. For one, parental influences cannot be easily obtained from big data. As in most cases, there are little digital records about parents' influences in their children's academic performance. For example, information like how much time parents help on children’s study, what is the academic expectation of your parents is not shown on every participant's Facebook or other data resources. To analyze the internal states and behavior data, it is better to conduct a survey. In addition, although big data is a great data sources for many studies, it has problems like inaccessibility and inaccuracy. Therefore, for this research, a digitally-enhanced survey is more appropriate.### Potential error#### Representative error##### 1. Sampling error Sampling error is a main concern for this research. Differences in schools(government, semi-government or non-government), students' cultural background, the financial situation of student's family and the educational background of participants' parents are some of the sampling error. To minimize this error, I will do non-probability sampling. A more diverse sample is needed as I can divide the sample into different groups according to the differences in students, parents and schools.  Then I will take a weighted average of the group estimates to produce an overall result. The number of groups used for post-stratification increases, the conclusion will become more reasonable as the larger sample helps ensure reasonable sample sizes in each group. ##### 2. Non-response errorRewards will be offered to the participants who complete the survey. As the research uses an application, some funds could be obtained from the advertisements on the application that will be used as monetary rewards.#### Measurement errorThe choice of survey questions and wording may result in different interpretation. I will ask advice from psychologists to find whether my survey questions are appropriate and then adjust my questions, Another solution is, as I have already done, adding some open-ended questions in the survey.## Reference:Pandey, Priyanka, and Komilla Thapa. 2017. "Parental influences in academic performance of school going students." Indian Journal Of Positive Psychology 82, no. 2: 132-137. Academic Search Complete, EBSCOhost (accessed October 22, 2017).Salganik, Matthew J. “Bit by bit: Social Research in the Digital Age” Princeton University Press, Open review edition”.Sugie, Naomi F. 2016. “Utilizing Smartphones to Study Disadvantaged and Hard-to-Reach Groups Sociological Methods & Research” DOI: 10.1177/0049124115626176(accessed October 22, 2017).Workman, Jamie L.1. 2015. "Parental Influence on Exploratory Students’ College Choice, Major, And Career Decision Making." College Student Journal 49, no. 1: 23-30. Education Source, EBSCOhost (accessed October 22, 2017).