MACS 30000Ethics Jie Heng# The Ethics of the Montana Election Experiment## Q1. The Four Principles of Ethical Research### Respect for personsApparently, this study does not respect participants. Respect for persons mean researchers should provide relevant information about the ongoing research and it is participants’ right to decide whether to participate in the research or not. However, researchers did not ask for participants’ consent or show any relevant information before they conducted it. In another word, participants were not awareness of this research.What’s more, the mistake the research team made: using the Great Seal of the State of Montana can mislead the participants to consider that the mail was sending by the local government. Even though researchers could explain the reasons of deception after research ends, they cannot guarantee that all the participants would forgive them and are willing to be involved in the research. ### Beneficence In terms of beneficence, this research could impose negative effects on candidates and Montana General Election. This research has a quite large sample--more than one hundred thousand people involved, approximately 15 percent of the state’s electorate (Johnson, 2015), the decision made by those voters could influence the voting result. And If “voters who are given more information are more likely to vote” as researchers expected, candidates may get higher or lower votes because of the mailers, which means this field study could directly sway the outcome of the Montana Supreme Court election.In addition, the act of sending mailers with the reproduction of the Great Seal of the State of Montana could impose negative impact on the state of Montana. For example, some voters might debt the truth of this mail and blame the state of Montana. The reputation of the local government might be tarnished, and in the worst scenario, potential social unrest might be triggered.### Justice The principal of justice is largely obeyed. Violating the principle of justice means a vulnerable group (poor, disenfranchised citizens, disabled or less-educated people, etc.) bears the costs of research while another group benefits from it. It is not clear that whether mailers were sent evenly between people who favor Democrats and Republicans. If one party has more potential supporters participated in the research, considering this research might increase the turnout, the study could result in more voters voting for this party and brings harm to the other party. But in the long run, if the assumption of this study is proven, more citizens will vote given more information, the study can improve minority representation and the passing of laws can be more reflective of how citizens feel. ​If participants had have been compensated financially, this research could be better aligned with the principle of justice.### Respect for law and public interestIt is questionable that researchers show respect for law or public interest. According to Salganik, this principal has two components: compliance and transparency-based accountability. The research team failed to obey either one of them. Researchers were accused of violating Montana law and all the detailed information about this research, was not public. All participants had was a flyer with a fake government seal.## Q2. Random SamplingLet’s assume that mailers do encourage registered voters to vote. If the voters are chosen randomly, the voting result might change for two reasons. First, registered voters vote for the party they like. Voters who do not vote before might favor one party. The mailer could show favorable information about the party they prefer and stimulate them to vote. Second, registered voters might vote based on the information provided by the mail. For some participants who do not have favored parties, they might vote for the candidates who are closer to their political affiliations. For some participants who find the party they favored actually is against their own political affiliations might vote for another party. Thus, whether the mailers alter the outcome or not depends on the party support ratios among the participants and the percentage of people influenced by the mails. ## Q3. Non-random SamplingEven though researchers performed stratification and considered disparity between two parties, my assessment for this research remains negative. For one, non-random sampling will not change the fact that this research design violates three ethical principles: respect for person, beneficence and respect for law and public interests. For another, sending far more mailers to participants favored Democratic Party benefits Republicans and do harm to Democrats, as it can increase votes for democrats. Thus, this research also violates the principal of justice.## Q4. ClosenessYes, it slightly changes my assessment of beneficence. If the outcomes of the election reflect a large disparity, the field study is less likely to alter the voting results. But the risk analysis cannot only rely on past data, researchers needs to publicize their entire and complete analysis to convince others that the non-closeness of judicial race will not change in 2014 election.## Q5. Non-closenessFrom the chart, we know that this research would not alter the outcome of the election of Supreme Court Justice 1, as Jim Rice won a landslide victory. But the outcome of Supreme Court Justice 2 is quite close. If 15% voters participated in this research, it is not sure that Mike Wheat would win the election-- the voting result will be influenced. Thus, risks for this research are not reduced as researchers expected and my negative judgement for this research reinforced. ## Q6. CrowdPACAs one of the researcher, Adam Bonica is a cofounder of CrowdPAC, a for-profit organization, it is hard to tell whether this experiment is a test of Crowdpac’s business. If CrowdPAC receives financial support from Democrats, it is very likely that this research disrupts the non-partisan election and the very beneficent of this research is Democratic Party. My assessment remains negative.## Q7. ImprovementThe ethic soundness of this research can be improved in the following ways.### Submit to IRBThe Montana study should be submitted to IRB Counsels at both Stanford and Dartmouth for approval at first. Researchers then should improve the research design following the advice provided by IRB. ### Respect for personsIt is necessary for researchers to get a consent from the participants, candidates and the State of Montana. The goals, source of funds and all details about the research should be clarified to all stakeholders before the research conducts. The research team could change the way of sending information about candidates in order to reduce costs and make it convenient to get response from potential participants. One way is building a research website. The website could be used to introduce the research to the public, recruit participants and clarify some potential misunderstanding, for example, the role of CrowdPAC in this research, reasons to conduct a non-random sampling experiment, and approvals from the government and IRB.### Respect for law and public interestThe research should abide with the federal and state election laws. Again, research team needs to get permissions from the state of Montana before they embark on it. To ensure transparency of this research, all information about it should be presented to all stakeholders at all phases of the research through the research website, for instance, how they spend the research funds. And researchers are obliged to response to any questions and doubts from the society.### Minimize the influence on the outcome of the electionTo better control the field study’s impact on the election, the study should reduce the sample size and use stratified sampling. First, since the turnout rate is the research focus, a small sample would be sufficient. The experiment could be better designed to analysis a small sample, maybe five percent of registered voters instead of fifteen percent. Second, although the new research design will change the way of recruiting participants, researchers should still insist on using stratified sampling. After potential participants show their interests on this research on the website, researchers will select participants based on the party support ratios among the participants, which could be obtained from third-party data.## Reference:1. Johnson, J.(2015, May 13) “Campaign experiment found to be in violation of Montana law”. The Washington Post. Retrieved from  https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2015/05/13/campaign-experiment-found-to-be-in-violation-of-montana-law/?utm_term=.4b79e8ee94c6. Accessed on November 19.2. Salganik, M. J. (2017). Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Princeton University Press. Retrieved from http://www.bitbybitbook.com/. Accessed on November 19.