MACS 30000Observational Study Jie Heng## Is the Chinese Dream a Government’s Dream?### IntroductionThe Chinese Dream is proposed by President Xi Jinping as the embodiment of the political ideology during his term of presidency. The Chinese Dream campaign plays a pivotal role for Xi’s administration. Domestically, the Chinese Dream is the “signature ideology” for Xi’s term. On the global stage, for China, one of six socialist countries in the world, to communicate with capitalist countries and influence their public opinion, it needs to “increase mutual understanding and respect of differences” through positive media messages, and to encourage more cultural exchange between countries. However, the Chinese Dream left a negative impression on its intended foreign audience. The foreign English-language media including BBC, NPR, the New York Times, the Economists and other major foreign English-language media, expressed concerns and doubts about the Chinese Dream.  Foreign scholars believe that the Chinese Dream only reflects the “state interests” instead of “the basic human rights and individual interests such as freedom, equality, rule of law” because it was a “top-down approach of propaganda.”  Question was asked in the English news media “Is the Chinese Dream achievable for all? ” Facing China’s rising nationalism and its military power, the Chinese Dream was understood as “an attempt to project China’s nationalism, including its military ambition.” The Chinese Dream is believed as a dream for China to seek military power and expand its international impact.The bias among foreign audience toward the Chinese dream may result from the rooted westerners’ prejudice against China or from the misinformation and inappropriate description in the Chinese media reports about the Chinese Dream. Media works like a bridge, connecting the government’s propaganda and its audience. The words Chinese media use and the title and contents they choose can influence the audience’s understanding towards certain topic. This research will analyze whether foreign audience’s bias toward the Chinese Dream is Chinese media's fault.### Research questionThe research aims to describe how the Chinese media encode meanings to the Chinese Dream. To be more specific, the research seeks to find the answer to the following question: how does Chinese media depict the Chinese Dream: is the Chinese Dream a government's dream? ### Research design#### Data SourceThe research will collect the online news reports about the Chinese Dream using keyword (“Chinese Dream”) search from the government-run media: China Daily, Xinhua net, guangming.cn, People.com.cn, and China.org.cn. The data collecting period starts on November 29, 2012 (the date of the Chinese Dream was proposed) and ends on November 29, 2017. There are two reasons to choose the above mentioned five news portals. For one, according to the statistic reports on top 10 most influential new portal in 2015 and 2016 released by iresearch.com, a Chinese private market research and consulting company, the media listed above are all on the top ten lists. For another, the government-run media is considered to be the voice of the Chinese government and therefore more consistent with the government's version of the Chinese Dream.#### MethodThe first step is cleaning data. For those articles whose topics are not about the Chinese Dream, for example, articles include the keywords “Chinese” and “dream” but do not relate to the Chinese Dream, I will remove those from the data. Then, I will measure how much percentage in each article is about the government’s Chinese Dream. As the opposite to the government’s dream is the individual dream, the latter is chosen as the control group to compare with the percentage of the words related to the government. For each article, I will compute the percentage of nouns related to the government’s Chinese Dream (e.g., “military”, “nation”, “rejuvenation” and “CPC”) and the dream of Chinese people (e.g., “life”, “health”, “income”, “people”) in each article. . By comparing the computing results of the two groups, the conclusion can be draw. ### Advantages:The research reflects the characteristic of big data and it is an example of digital research. It reflects the benefits of big data. #### Big - **Size**: Observing a single news portal’s reports about the Chinese Dream or only collect the articles for one year cannot convince others. By searching articles on five state-run news portals from 2012 to 2017 and comparing the percentages of government-related words with individual-related words, a more persuasive answer to the research question can be obtained.- **Small changes**: The Chinese government may alter their definition of the Chinese Dream or the media may change their ways of encoding the Chinese Dream. Big data enables me to detect the change in the news reports about the Chinese Dream. This difference could be observed easily by graphing the computing results. However, the differences and changes might be overlooked if the researchers only selected reports in a short-time period. #### Non-reactive- The importance of this advantage is obvious. The conclusion that the Chinese Dream is a government’s dream might incur criticism about the Chinese dream and democracy in China. If the Chinese media is aware of this research, chances are that they might delete the previous articles which includes the state's dream, or they might post more articles describing ordinary people’s Chinese dream. Either of these behaviors will influence the research result. ### Difficulties:Dealing with tens of hundreds of news articles, the following weaknesses of big data must be overcome:#### Dirty- While analyzing the words used in the collected articles, the computer and software might generate some automated pages, which might contain certain words that will influence the result of this research. The method used in this research is similar with the methods in the study of the emotional response to the attacks of September 11, 2001 done by Back and colleagues’ (2010). Learning from Back and colleagues’ lesson, I should carefully review the data and delete the noisy pages before I begin to compute.#### Algorithmically confounded- Articles are not designed for research. For this research, the most challenging part is text analysis. As not all selected articles only cover the Chinese Dream, there must be some include other events and the Chinese Dream in one article. If this situation is not taken into account, chances are that some government-related nouns used to describe other events rather than the Chinese Dream are computed by the text analysis software. So, the text analysis program must be carefully designed to distinguish whether the nouns are related to the Chinese Dream.### Bibliography:BBC, “What Does Xi Jinping's China Dream Mean?” June 6 2013.Mitja D. Back, Albrecht C.P. Küfner and Boris Egloff. “The Emotional Timeline of September 11, 2001.” Psychological Science 21, Issue 10(2010): pp. 1417 – 1419 DOI: 10.1177/0956797610382124Zhong, Lingzi,  and J.  Zhang. “Political  Myth as Strategic Communication: Analysis of Chinese Dream’s Rhetoric and English News Media’s Interpretation.” International Journal of Strategic Communication 10, no.1 (2016): 51-68. DOI: 10.1080/1553118x.2015.1105229