Tom Curran

Homework 2: Proposing an Observational Study

10/23/2017

Perspectives on Computational Analysis

### Introduction:

Thanks to efforts to increase governmental transparency in Oklahoma, the Oklahoma State Department of Education has made vast amounts of data available to people to access and analyze. As such, the Oklahoma Public School Resource Center has compiled that data and made it into a MySQL database that is open to everyone. The database contains extensive and longitudinal data of personnel records, school and district test score results, demographics, and perhaps most importantly, district level financial revenues and expenditures. 

The financial aspect of the transparency efforts by the OKSDE have proven to be of special importance because of the debate over school funding taking place throughout the state of Oklahoma. Currently, Oklahoma is facing severe budget cuts across the board, but are felt particularly hard in education. In this case, the issue is over whether particularly rural school districts (called Independent school districts in OKSDE jargon) receive an unfair advantage when it comes to state evaluation of schools and school district (through the program called the A – F Report Card) by receiving additional funding through the motor vehicle and gross production taxes. Some argue that because school districts receive this extra revenue, it subsequently increases a district’s buying power for resources and talent, thereby putting other districts at a significant disadvantage. 

While an observational study can indicate a relationship between funding and overall performance, and possibly help predict these A – F report card outcomes, these relationships do not fully encapsulate everything that influences a school’s performance. The success of an academic organization relies heavily on abstractions that cannot be captured by financial records. As such, to truly identify what enables success in a K-12 school digitally enriched surveys, particularly employing enriched asking strategies and wiki surveys, can help paint a clearer picture of what and how a successful school is built. 

### Research Question:

Do increases in school revenues, effectively increasing a school district’s “buying power”, result an increase in student achievement and performance on the Oklahoma State Department of Education A – F School Report Card from the previous year?

### Survey Design:

In Bit by Bit, by Matthew Salganik, he describes a mixed method approach to survey design that is enhanced by new digital mediums called wiki-surveys. In the chapter on wiki-surveys (3.5.2) he discusses how questions and answers can lead to bias in the survey results. In an attempt to avoid some of the bias inherent to certain methodologies, Salganik offers an alternative that combines the benefits of open and closed response questions into a term he calls wiki-surveys. First and foremost, the survey should be done through a website or digital app. This medium should be chosen above something like an interviewer because it allows for more people to answer, since our frame populations (i.e. educators) are very busy and do not have time to schedule interviews during normal work hours. A digital medium (i.e. website or mobile device app) allows for interviewees to speak their minds without fear of judgement or repercussions from administrators if they say something unflattering about the school. 

To answer the research question, I plan to implement a survey similar to the one conducted by the New York City’s Mayors Office. In that survey, the office surveyed respondents by proposing a options to them while simultaneously offering options to convey their own ideas or opting out. I plan to adopt this survey by instead of offering ideas, offering abstractions to organizational and employee health that might otherwise influence a school’s performance. 

For example, a respondent would be asked a qualitative question about their school and be given three choices, an option not to answer, and a space to write an option that did not appear in the original three items. Designing the survey in this way has several important advantages. One, as Salganik says, it combines the advantages of both the finite and open-ended response questions wherein the surveyor minimizes possible bias artifacts of finite choices. Two, creating both opened and closed questions allow for researchers to check the assumptions of what they assume to be the most effective qualities of a well performing school by simply seeing whether the default choices in the question are preferred or not to the write in option. Third, and finally, implementing the survey this way can capture thoughts and ideas that were not previously considered by the researcher.

#### Data Collection

For this survey, our target population are educators and education professionals in the matched pairs of school districts generated by the data set created in the observational study. Where in each pair consisted of one independent and one dependent school district with similar populations, enrolled students, number of teachers and other characteristics, with the only difference being (ideally) whether or not the school receives additional revenue through motor vehicle and gross revenue taxes. 

The survey would be implemented on a tool such as Qualtrics or Google Forms. First, the respondent would be asked to give their School District Name, the School Name and their role at that school. Here, we take full advantage of digital platform by not only being able to tie respondent’s answers to existing data sets, but being able to stratify based on role. In other words, being able have different sub groups within the frame population indicate their ideas of qualitative characteristics the effect school performance could greatly enhance the larger, more quantitative data set. Essentially, capturing this information via google forms or Qualtrics is an opportunity to slice the data in different ways to get a more nuanced understanding.

#### Enriched Asking: 

Because there is a rich and detailed financial history for a given school, we are able to easily conduct an observational study in the major influencers of a school and school district’s success as defined by the OKSDE A-F Report card. Having this data at our disposal provides us as researchers a solid foundation for questioning and investigation. However, at its core, the research question wants to know if money does not make a school successful, then what does? Deploying a survey amongst educators and the education community in Oklahoma can enrich the observational power of the data. Because we also collect information on the respondent’s role, school district and school name and employment characteristics, we can further identify the differences in matched pairs during the observational study. For example, our survey responses can show us that if an Independent school (i.e. motor vehicle and gross product revenue having) actually performs worse than a dependent school, and all other characteristics being held constant between the two, the survey of educators and education professionals could help identify how different perspectives on something like school leadership, or efficient spending helped achieve (or not achieve) high performance. Combining these two sources, one quantitative and one qualitative can ensure a robust and powerfully explanatory dataset.

#### Sample Survey Questions:

1.	What is the name of the school district in which you are employed?
2.	What school are you employed at?
3.	What is your current role at the school where you are employed?
4.	How many years have you been in that role?
5.	How many years have you been in education?
6.	In your opinion, which of the following do you believe most influences the success or lack of success in a school:
a.	School, Teacher and District Leadership 
b.	Teacher Professional Development
c.	Other 
d.	[Submit Own Answer]

While the first 5 questions can be easily answered by the data collected from the OKSDE, it is still useful information to collect. In question 6, there are 4 choices where the first 2 are opportunities for the survey to test hypothesis on what is believed to be the most important characteristics, while also allowing respondents to opt out of the question or submit their own. Question 6 would then be repeated over many different combinations of different factors believe to contribute to a school’s success. Each time the respondent makes a choice between A, B, C or D it is recorded and tallied to be compiled and ranked. 

### Survey versus Observational Data:

One of the most important distinctions between the observational and the survey study that seek to answer this question of school performance is that the observational study method fails to capture the qualitative aspect of the relationship between fiscal incentives and performance. Specifically, we know that more money is going to those schools, but not how it is being. For example, if we take an independent school that is an ‘A’ and a dependent school that is a ‘F’, all else being equal, we can observe that the ‘A’ school received more funding, but cannot tell if that money spent on things that are directly related to school performance because the data does not get that granular nor is it safe to assume the correlation is causation. Using the survey method, we can ask questions that fall into distinct categories; the first being questions that indicate whether money was spent on things like classroom supplies, teacher professional development and books, the second being questions about things like leadership, happiness in the work place. If we ask those two categorical questions across different types of independent and dependent schools it is easier to identify, for example, that something like school leadership may have played a larger role than extra revenue. 

### Potential Sources of Error:

Like with any survey, there are several possible sources of error. One of the most important aspects of this survey is the sampling frame. In this survey, we would target teachers, school administrators and teaching support staff (e.g. classroom aides). Since there are far more teachers than administrators and teaching support staff, we would want to make sure that we did not over sample the teachers, and under sample either the administrators or the teaching support staff. If the teacher were over sampled it could lead to bias because the teacher’s perspective of a successful school can be very different from an administrator’s view.

The frame population could be an issue of access and ethics. Because support staff are often part time or hourly employees their email address are not listed in official directories like the ones published by the State Department of Education, which would again bias the results due to lack of representation. It also raises the ethical issue because many could see the attempt to survey educators via email address obtained online as ‘spamming’ and not serious academic work. To remedy the latter issue, the survey would need the express permission or be done in partnership with the OKSDE and District administration.

The survey also has potential measurement issues. Potentially, since every respondent is given the opportunity to provide their own answer, it could be that each answer is different and the provided ones are not relevant. Furthermore, open ended responses like the ones proposed are subject to colloquialisms, ambiguity and misspelling. Even with sophisticated data and text mining techniques, extracting meaning from these answers can be very difficult. As such, having an abundance of open ended responses could result in missing important qualitative aspects and therefore subject the surveys to measurement error. While giving the respondents two concrete options reduces this possibility, it is still a concern. 