HW1 - Proposing an Observational Study
================
Nora Nickels
10/16/2017

Assignment 1
------------

Perspectives of Computational Analysis - Fall 2017
--------------------------------------------------

### Research Question: Could a detection and quantification of gendered terminology in Twitter trends associated with STEM vs. non-STEM topics reveal the risk for stereotype threat in a social media domain?

Stereotype threat refers to being at risk of confirming, as a self-characteristic, a negative stereotype about one’s social group (Steele & Aronson 1995). Although a wide variety of social groups are susceptible to stereotype threat, as the conditions the produce it are ones in which any highlighted stereotype implicates one though association with a social category, one of the most widely vulnerable and highlighted social groups is that of women in math and STEM careers and majors. Situations that increase the salience of the stereotyped group, in this case, women in math, can increase vulnerability to stereotype threat, as one will be more likely to view oneself in terms of that group membership. For example, statistics about male and female performance in math or the salience of the difficulty of a math evaluation has been shown to undermine performance because of concerns about possibly confirming negative stereotypes.

Research has shown that stereotype threat can cause underachievement on classroom exams, standardized texts, and other tasks in non-academic domains, as well as increased use of self-defeating behaviors, disengagement, and altered professional aspirations. Although these outcomes have shown clear implications for the growing field of stereotype threat research, it is crucial to examine the real-world situations that may bring salience to the social category and stereotyped group. That is, in addition to studying the potential negative outcomes of stereotype threat, we must research what domains expose the salience of stereotypes, and to what degree, so that we may bring to light the real-world triggers of social group awareness.

The goal of this work would be to observe the potential of social media to make salient the gender bias and negative stereotype of women being less capable in math and STEM fields. Specifically, this research would seek to detect and quantify any association of gendered terminology on Twitter with STEM vs. non-STEM topics. The objective here is to measure the association of gendered terminology with STEM vs. non-STEM topics so to observer a potential risk for stereotype threat when spending time on a social media domain. If a Twitter user were to become susceptible to the salience of this stereotype threat on social media, their subsequent performance, interests, and behaviors may be affected.

The research design here to be used would be measuring the number and gender tone of tweets associated with STEM vs. non-STEM fields. The study will assess the linguistics content of Twitter status updates from individuals and businesses of STEM and non-STEM affiliations of the general public. We will analyze the statuses of these individual and businesses, which will be selected based on university affiliations, STEM and non-STEM businesses, and prominent figures in STEM and non-STEM fields. We will scrape tweets coming from these individuals and assess the gendered tone of each tweet using word lists similar to that used by Textio’s gender bias check and gender meter; these word lists detect gendered terminology. Logistic regressions predicting the presence or absence of gendered tone words at the tweet level will be conducted, with STEM vs. non-STEM twitter user followed as the independent variable. The benefits of using a measurement approach with observational data would be the ability to explore not just the quantity but also the gender tone of social media tweets. This text analysis measurement will allow for subtle gender tones and marginal effects in the social media sphere that may otherwise go undetected; the subtlety of tone that only observation measurement of big data may detect is crucial for looking at the nuanced tones that may trigger stereotype threat in a real-world social media domain.

The goal of this project is observational and descriptive in nature; in order to make eventual explanations, predictions, or causal experimentation to see if exposure to subtle triggers of stereotype threat in a social media domain could affect subsequent behavioral and cognitive outcomes, there first needs to be a measurement and statistical description of gendered bias in user tweets surrounding STEM topics. This is where the benefits of big data come in – as opposed to observing stereotype threat in a lab or classroom environment, having a large, more representative sample of social media language leverages the ability to detect natural subtle cues of stereotypes instead of artificially incurring them in experimental situations. Because social media is constantly active, the use of searching for such triggers in a domain like twitter will allow for a more realistic representation of the presence and strength of tone of stereotype twitter in highly used platform. Further, there would be no reaction by twitter users to experimentation or manipulation – as stereotype threat is a sensitive topic, and often the artificial triggers of threat used in the laboratory are often uncomfortable and unrealistic, using a social media environment will provide a non-reactive domain of data where triggers of stereotype threat can be observed in a natural online setting.

However, we do caution the use of big data and the usage of twitter when observing a potential toned bias in topical posts. Specifically, the data collected has the potential to be incomplete regarding potential behaviors on other platforms, dirty in nature, and non-representative of the population that may trigger stereotype threat in women in STEM.

I believe the most relevant struggle with this methodology would be the incompleteness of the collected data. The point of this research would be to capture stereotype threat triggers of women in math and science in a naturalistic domain – in this case, a social media domain – to account for the potential for these triggers to affect subsequent performance. By just observing Twitter, we miss out on stereotypical behavior on other platforms that are used and that may be more frequently used before performance or related behaviors. For example, Instagram is frequently used in younger populations, and much stereotype threat research focuses on grade school and high school student math performance after a subtle trigger. If students are checking Instagam as opposed to Twitter prior to a math evaluation, we miss the identification of potential bias in this domain behavior. It would be important to repeat this analysis in other social media domains, particular to capture incomplete data for varying age groups.

Another difficulty when capturing gendered tone in STEM vs. non-STEM users and tweets, particularly using gendered word lists and algorithms to identify and quantify these terms, may lead to confounded text analysis. The may render the text analysis data to be dirty in nature. Essentially, a spell check for gender bias and tone may lead to misleading analysis. By just identifying keywords, the research may miscalculate the context of tweets; although stereotype triggers can be incredible understated in nature, it is crucial too identify the negative or positive context with which gendered statements are used. In addition to gendered terminology, we would need to identify tweets that are actual the opposite in nature to the potential negative triggers. For example, our text analysis may flag a STEM tweet that refers to women in math in a positive as opposed to a negative way; this would have the opposite effect of a stereotype threat trigger. Affective text analysis would prove useful here, as well as a “proofread” of keywords and contexts.

Finally, a common issue with social media data is its characteristic of being non-representative. A systemic bias may lie in the lack of the text analysis of tweets’ ability to capture a representation of where stereotype threat triggers actually exist. In particular, perhaps there is a bias for Twitter users to be more STEM-related than the general population, as social media usage requires some interest in social media technology in the first place. An awareness of the potential for stereotype threat triggers existing outside of technology domains must remain; by using big data to scrape for gender bias in STEM vs. non-STEM topics, we being with an inherent bias towards technology users.

In conclusion, understanding the existence and tone of gendered STEM vs. non-STEM social media tweets would help to mitigate the effects of subtle stereotypical associating messages, thus reducing stereotype threats effects on performance and behavior.
