Proposal: Can increase in social interactions improve financial stability?  

Introduction 

In the paper of "Economic analysis of social interactions", Charles F. Mansi articulates the importance of understanding social interactions in order to formulate public policy. He then appeals for the attention in acedemia to conduct empirical analysis of social interactions. Followed by his call, numerous studies have investigated in this area in recent years. Among them, Feigenberg, Field and Pande (2013) examine whether social interaction can lead to economic returns. They attempted to answer this question by conducting experiments on microfinance clients. They randomly assign borrowers to repayment groups that met either weekly or monthly. According to the long-term survey data, clients initially assigned to weekly meeting interact more frequently and are more willing to pool risks with their group member. These clients also show significantly lower default rates on their second loans. The study provides strong evidence on social interactions on economic returns. However, since the experiment is placed in a microfinance setting, the participants are generally from the bottom of the income distribution and thus, the study fails to reveal the heterogenous effect for the population. In view of this, my paper purposes to examine whether an increase in social interactions can improve ones financial stability. It adds to the literature by genralizing the findings from Feigenberg, Field and Pande (2013) into a different but possibly wider subgroup of the population, using propensity matching score method. 


Data 

The study will apply digital data to measure "social interactions" and "financial stability". Facebook is an international coorperation that provides online social networking services. With more than 2 billion monthly active users, Facebook possesses an enormous amount of records of social interactions including private chat, events participated and relationship status etc. One particular favorable feature of facebook is that, the great diversity of activities ranges from both online and offline, which represents a broader scope of measuring social interactions compared with simply counting text messaeges, phone calls and emails. Previous literature has verified a strong correletion between the number of Facebook friends and actual social interactions (Ellison, Steinfield and Lampe 2007). An index is created to manifest the magnitude of social interactions, namely SII. SII will incorporate the multiple dimensions of interations: the name of total Facebook friends(30%), the number of times being tagged from others posts(30%) and the number of Facebook friends engaging private conversations more than once a week(40%). The SII is recalcualted monthly to match one full cycle of credit report updates, the data source of "financial stability" which will be explained in the next paragraph. By doing so, the study guarantees that the SII is the most recent representation of the level of social interactions that matched with the users' financial stablilty. We are able use data dated back to 2003, the time Facebook is first created. However, in order to take into account of the system instablity at intial stage of Facebook, we only use data from 2005.    


On the other hand, the study attempts to access the credit history to collect information on the person's financial stability. Though there is a standardized credit evaluation system in America, called FICO scoring system, the study abondons this system becasue 15% of this calculated score is contributed by the time in file. In this sense, even if two users have exactly the same financial activities, the credit score is expected to be higher for the one who initiates his/her file earlier. This is clearly not a good reflection of financial stability. Instead, a new measure of financial stability is designed based on FICO scoring system. We call it FSI. We include only the componets: payment history, debt and the search for a new credit. Since FSI disposes some components of the credit score, the weights are adjusted to be 40%, 40% and 20%, respectively. The proportion that the term "search for a new credit" accounts for is doubled. The reason is that, given the complexity of requiring credit from credit institutions (documentation procedure and time of approval etc.), a financially-stabled individual is less likely to accumulate numerous credit inquries.  

Apart from that, we want to collect demographical characteristics, personal income and match them with SII and FSI by individual. Data can be found in IPUMS. These are the variables to be matched for different individuals and is explained in detail in the next section. 


Research Design

The study will be conducted using a propensity matching score method to achieve a fair comparison of groups with different level of social interactions. The covariates considered to be some demographical characteristics including age, gender, geographical location (at state level), personal annual income and eduction (the highest education level, education institute and major of study). Though it is unlikely to exhaust the factors that is potentially correlated with the level of social interactions, these variables can justify a considerable proportion of the variations of financial stability over individuals except the impact from the level of social interactions, our "treatment variable". Therefore, the method has an advantage over simply counting things given observational data. More importantly, the penal structure of the data enables us to construct a fixed effect regression model. 


The Advantages and Weakness of Employing Big Data  

Going back to the paper of "Economic analysis of social interactions", Charles F. Mansi points out two major difficulties that hinder the flourish of empirical analysis of social interactions. First, the concept itself is too abstruct to be precisely defined or measured. Second, since the common practice to determine social interactions is to infer from the observations of outcomes, the data contains some ambiguity and are hard to interpret. However, with the rapid development of information techonology, the way that researchers consider and collect data has been dramatically changed. These problems can be alleviated or even avoided in the era of big data. For instance, in the paper of Feigenberg, Field and Pande (2013) mentioned above, though randomly assign microfinance clients with different meeting frequencies, the presence of social interactions are validated by self-reported surveys after each meeting and 16 months after the experimental loan cycle ended. Admittedly, despite that randomized control experiments provides the strongest causal inference, it is both time-consuming and expensive. Furtheremore, given the limited number of experiment participants researchers can hire, the external validities of the finding are doubted. Whereas, the propensity matching score method is greatly improved with the help of big data -- after matching with different variables, we have plenty of data in each subgroup that are sufficient to conduct statistical inference. That is, the deficiencies in methodology is remedied by big data. Meanwhile, we aviod the measurement error that generally arises from the self-reported survey as well as the behavioral change of experiment participants knowing themselves being monitored. 

However, this research methodology also has some weaknesses. The most salient ones are inaccessibity and data incompleteness. Regarding the first weakness, the major sources of data are Facebook and Consumer Reporting Agencies (CRAs) such as Experian, TransUnion and Equifax. All of them are profit-pursuing entities. Moreover, the data requested contain extreme amount of private information, hence these companies are reluctant to share this information without a clear presentation of profit in starting this partnership. Fortunately, the findings of this research question might be of interest of these entities. Part of profit generated by Facebook is from advertising. The higher number its users click the advertisements, the higher profits it can achieve. According to this, if our model serves as a good tool for predicting financial stability from the Facebook data, Facebook can improve their algorithm for advertisement putting. Despite the fact that the model emphasize on explanatory power of these variables, it is undeniable that explantory model can be used to do prediction. The findings could potentially contribute to the models of these CRAs in order to forecast the financial risks of their clients. 

As for the second concern, since the data are limited to Facebook users, it is more likely to cover the younger than the elders. Furthermore, not all adult in America has credit record. The omission of credit record is systematic and concentrated on the lower income individuals, who are more likely to confront finanical plights.  The incompleteness can be allevaieted to some extent as the increase of popularity of Facebook; it is reported that by April 2016, 79% of the American Adult are Facebook users and there is an increase in the elder users. Admittedly, the data incompletness is one of limitations of this research project.

Apart from the two major drawbacks, we may also consider the drifts embedded in the data, both system drift of facebook as well as the behavioral drift of facebook users. Facebook has its secret algorithm to suggest friends to its users, and this algorithm is constantly updating. For example, Facebook is designed to encourags its users to boost their friends to be at least 20. Therefore, a user with 20 facebook friends might not have very different interactions level as a user who has only 8 friends. In order overcome this pitfall, we exclude the facebook users with less than 20 friends. In terms of behavioral drifts, as we match different individuals with only individuals of similar characteristics, meanwhile, we will control for time and location in our regression analysis, the behavior drifts of Facebook users are not very serious issues. 

Reference

Feigenberg, Benjamin, Erica Field, and Rohini Pande. "The economic returns to social interaction: Experimental evidence from microfinance." Review of Economic Studies 80, no. 4 (2013): 1459-1483.

Manski, Charles F. Economic analysis of social interactions. No. w7580. National bureau of economic research, 2000.

Ellison, Nicole B., Charles Steinfield, and Cliff Lampe. "The benefits of Facebook “friends:” Social capital and college students’ use of online social network sites." Journal of Computer‐Mediated Communication 12, no. 4 (2007): 1143-1168.

   





