**Forecasting music preferences with social-media derived personality traits**

*by Sumer Vaid* 

Automated music recommendation systems traditionally rely two sources of information to better the quality of the recommendation: the nature of previously consumed music, and its collaborative filtering profile in relation to the agent’s taste.

[^1]: ** https://www.theverge.com/2015/9/30/9416579/spotify-discover-weekly-online-music-curation-interview** 

 A parallel line of research in psychology indicates that personality is a strong predictor of music taste and preference, consistent across cultures.

[^2]: **http://psycnet.apa.org/record/2003-00779-011**

 Personality traits of individuals can be reliably predicted from their digital media footprints, especially through their social media use. This paper investigates the plausibility of a music recommendation system that relies upon inferred personality traits of the agents to recommend high-match-potential songs to the agents.

[^3]: **http://www.pnas.org/content/110/15/5802.full**

 The performance of this model will be judged relative to conventional modes of recommending music, that utilize a mixture of collaborative filtering and music analysis to generate recommendations based on past track history. Our goal is to use some basic knowledge about the user’s previous music history and advanced knowledge of who the listener is to develop music recommendations that the user will like more often than those produced by the traditional system. 

We will first predict the personality traits of participants using a sample of their “Facebook” likes. Previous work attempted to do this has relied on information on 170-per participant “likes”. We will use this data source as a first means of inferring the personality traits of the user. To ensure the validity of these trait inferences, we will next utilize the current profile picture of the listener to refine the inferred traits in stage one. Lastly, we will utilize information about the user’s photo-related social-network activity (i.e frequency of uploads, volume of uploads) to further ensure that the crystallized traits have high external validity. Additionally, we will adapt a convergence-based approach where we will independently predict personalities from three social networks: Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. The “success” of a supposed recommendation will be determined by user-input as to whether or not they liked (1) or disliked (0) the music preference. 

The proposed research design takes advantages of the unique characteristics afforded by big data. First, we will obtain personality impressions of participants from a wealth of data collected in an ecologically valid manner. That is, participants are typically unaware that the richness of their social media data affords deep personality impressions of them. This advantage confers a specific benefit with regards to our baseline, as participants usually have a music history polluted with tracks that participants’ do not themselves enjoy.   For instance, a participant might play several tracks at a social gathering that they themselves do not like, but play out of social compulsion. A typical music recommendation agent will use these inputs to suggest similar songs using a collaborative filtering approach, thereby presenting deviating recommendations from the participants’ taste. To the contrary, participants’ decision to “like” certain Facebook objects will be more authentic to their personality and liking. While it is true that Facebook behavior is also used as a social signal to other “friends” on Facebook, we can safely claim that the distortion provided by such a phenomenon will be lesser when compared to a playlist of music generated solely for other people’s enjoyment. As the personality data collected from Facebook will be non-reactive in nature, it will afford us greater accuracy in music recommendations.

 Second, we capitalize on the “always-on” characteristic of big data to strengthen our model. For each participant’s unique personality trait constellation, we wish to develop correlation scores of music genres and tracks that they are likely to like. This exercise is best done by analyzing a small sample of the participants’ music listening history and correlating this in relation to their extracted personality traits at that time. Big data’s trait of facilitating retrograde analysis is crucial for the development of our recommendation system. We can exploit this advantage of big data by modeling fluctuations in personality and their subsequent effect on music preferences using the existing music history of participants and their social media footprint. This will allow for our model to predict changing music preferences with variations in personality traits over time. This approach is better than the baseline, as traditional recommendation engines would track personality-change induced shifts in music preferences with a delay. If a user’s personality shifts marginally at time x, our model will able to detect this change and forecast the resulting change in music preference at time x; whereas a traditional engine would first have to sense this personality shift through changing music preferences. 

Our reliance on tracking personality-fluctuations over time and accordingly adjusting music recommendation shields our system against loss of efficiency occurring because of population drift in terms of personality trait. However, our approach makes us particularly vulnerable to behavioral drift and system drift problems. It is plausible that the way people use social networks changes over time, causing our system to lose the ability to extract relevant and deep personality impressions from digital footprint data. We attempt to overcome this problem by mining social media footprints across multiple platforms. For instance, if we rely on a mixture of social media data from Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, then we reduce the probability of our system failing from behavioral drift occurring on any one platform. Our reasoning is that the probability that social media users will drift behaviorally across multiple social media platforms is lower than the probability that users will drift across any one social media platform. Similarly, this approach shields us against system drift bias that can be introduced when any one social media platform changes its features. The same line of reasoning indicates that multiple social media platforms are less likely to change simultaneously than any one social media platform. 

Avoiding bias introduced by behavioral and system drift requires us to gain access to sensitive data from multiple social media platforms. While our data is sensitive - in that it captures information about its users’ social life - there is little potential for harm our data can cause. For instance, the majority of our data will be information about a small sample of participant-specific likes on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. Other data will include the behavior of photo-uploading (i.e frequency of uploads across multiple organizations of photo on Facebook) as opposed to the photo itself, significantly lowering odds of personal damage. Lastly, while we do intend to analyze the actual profile pictures of participants, note that this information will not be specifically extracted for our purpose. Most major streaming services require that individuals create an account on their platform, which is easily done by connecting their pre-existing Facebook accounts with the streaming service. This connect also links the Facebook-profile picture with the account of the streaming service. Hence, we rely on existing, secured and tested links to extract the most sensitive data we use by depending on the Spotify web-based developer API to extract the most sensitive nature of our data. 

The issue of algorithmic confounding is not of immediate concern to us. If our engine is able to use data crystallized from a web of social media algorithms to predict music preferences better than existing baseline measures, then our purpose is achieved. If potential algorithmic confounding hinders the extraction of personality traits in the future, our convergence approach of using data from multiple social media services will shield us from this system drift problem.

Circumventing many of the weaknesses of big-data restricts the participant-base of our recommendation engine. Our system works well with those users who have a strong presence on the internet, and frequently use a variety of social media platforms. To accommodate the presence of incomplete data, which will often be the case in our convergence approach, we can bolster our system by combining it with the typical baseline methods of music recommendations. That is, for our engine to work optimally for users with a weak digital footprint, we will have to combine our approach with traditional music-based recommendation engines to sustain the quality of our recommendations. Indeed, if such a symbiotic approach outperforms either of the isolated approaches, that may be the way to go. Such a combined approach will harness the qualities of big-data to optimize music recommendations while minimizing the potential pitfalls of big data. 

All of the data we seek to analyze is available from the developer front of the social media platforms. For instance, Facebook allows researchers to access the "like" data we seek to collect. Similarly, the list of tweets that a user has liked is available to researchers to analyze. LinkedIn was recently ordered by a court to allow scrapping of public profile data, which can be used to collect data about the list of objects a user has liked in the last few days.

[^4]: https://www.theverge.com/2017/8/15/16148250/microsoft-linkedin-third-party-data-access-judge-ruling 

Regardless, we expect that all these social media platforms have much to gain by collaborating with us on this research.  Our research can aid social networks and streaming websites to retain traffic on their respective websites by recommending audio content that users are more likely to "like" compared to base-line measures. In facilitating this collaboration, we aim to keep an eye out for algorithmic confounding by coordinating regularly with the social media websites. Lastly, the Spotify developer API allows experimenters to add tracks into a user's playlist with their consent. This will be the primary means of recommending music to our participants.  The Spotify API allows us track if the recommended song in the playlist has been "added" to a user's main song library on the platform. The initiation of this transfer will determine the success or failure of the music recommendation. 

**