
###The Ethics of the Montana election experiment

####Sumer S. Vaid 


######Q1) 
**Respect for persons**

First, this study did not seek consent from participants before sending them the information flyers. This means that individuals were not treated as autonomous. Not only were the participants informed about the study, they were also not asked to consent before being forced to participate. Second, this study did not attempt to provide additional protections for individuals with diminished autonomy, as there was no autonomy assumed to begin with. Hence, this study did not show Respect for persons. 


**Beneficence**

First, this study did not overtly make an attempt to harm its participants. In the unlikely event that mailing mailers to participants without their consent might have led to mental, physical or property-based harm, the researchers would have failed the beneficence requirement. However, it can be reasonably assumed that the act of mailing paper to participants did not cause  participants "harm" - their "complaints" are better understood as discomfort originating from excessive mail, not harm. Second, the study did attempt to minimize possible harms to participants by explicitly stating in the mailer that the mailer "is nonpartisan and does not endorse any candidate or party". This statement reduces the potential for the mailer to influence the election outcome. Participants may have faced long-term harm if they had elected someone other than their initial choice because of the contents of the mailer. However, the likelihood of this was reduced becasuse of the explicitly stated declaration in the mailer. 

In general, the probability of adverse events was low as mailing paper to participants is unlikely to cause significant harm. However, the severity of those adverse situations is relatively high - if unsolicited mail causes stress to participants, then this is negatively consequential for their health. If participants suffer property damage because of excessive mail, the this negatively consequential for their finances. If the information in the mailer changes the choice of the participants to elect someone who is not as good for their future as their initial choice, this can have seriously bad outcomes for their future. Some of these problems could have been avoided by administering interventions through email - this would have reduced the possible health/physical risks of the study. But this was not the case. Hence, the princple of beneficience was mostly adhered to, but was not exhaustively implemented. 


**Justice**

The risk and benefits of this research are not distributed fairly. The premise is to test if people with more information are more likely to vote. The results of this study will benefit those members of the population that are more able to vote than others: for instance, hourly wage workers that are unable to vote will not benefit from the results of this study. These workers, however, may have participated in the study because of the large sample size deployed in Montana. Hence, there is some distension between *who* participated in the study *who* will reap the possible benefits. In the newer view of Justice as *access* instead of *protection* (Sagalnik, *Justice*), it can be argued that sampling from these unlikely-to-vote populations will actually help deploy solutions to encourage voting. By including daily wage workers in their sample, the research is able to understand how to better encourage individuals with little to no time to vote, which is beneficial for a democracy. Hence, in this new view of Justice as providing access instead of protection to marginalized groups of society, this study adheres to the Justice principle. 



**Respect for law and public interest**

Laws were not adhered to strictly. First, the researchers failed to report the experiment as an overt expenditure intended to influence election results, as a campaign advertisement trail is required to do. The researchers' experiment was reliant on measuring the total number of votes collected, without which their research question could not be answered. Hence, it is safe to assume that the experiment had power to influence total vote counts, which requires discolure in-line with voting laws. This was not done, and hence a law was violated. Whether or not the researchers were aware of this technicality is not a concern - it is the researchers' duty to identify which laws might apply to their experiments. While the mailer made it clear it did not favor or oppose any one candidate, the content of the mailer would inevitably have this influence. Second, the unauthorized use of the Montana Seal was also a violation of the law. Hence the "Compliance" component of this principle was not met. The "transparency-based Accountantbility" component was satisfied as the authors followed up with letters to all participants addressing the main concerns relating to the study. The researchers were always clear about their goals, methods and results durign all stages of the experiment. While Stanford itself refused to take responsibility of the experiment by denying any violations of the law, the researchers' letter assumed responsibility. 

######Q2) 

The mailers would have altered the outcome of the Supreme Court Justice election if they influenced certain groups of voters more than others. This would occur if voters of certain political beliefs and affiliations were overrepresented in the random sampling of participants. This uneven cell frequency would cause different clusters (with varying sample sizes) of voter-types to receive the same treatment, thereby resulting in systematically different voting outcomes (as there are different numbers of different voter types). There is also the case of non voters and their own political affiliations. If certains parties were interpreted by voters as being presented favorably, then those non-voters who align more closely with favorably presented parties would be more likely to be driven to action. 


######Q3) 

The fact that random sampling was not deployed in favor of stratified sampling indicates that some of the concerns mentioned in the previous answer were alleviated. However, the fact there was disparity between Democratic and Republican voter indicates that cell frquency was ultimately uneven. This uneven cell frequency aids the robustness of the research design (as the researchers expected a certain voter demographic to have lower turnouts, and therefore sampled them more), but has negative consequences for ethicality of the experiment. This is because effectively, more democrats were sent the mailer as compared to republicans, which increases the possibility of the mailer influencing the outcome of the election if these voters intrepret that one or the other party was presented more favorably. As the researchers anyways observed systematic differences in voter turnout based on their results, the fact remains that their experiment indeed influenced the voting tallies. Secondly, the researchers did not maintain an equal cell frequency, which would have further aggravated the effect of the experiment on voting tallies. 


###### Q4 & Q5) 

Salganik's principle of ethical research acknowledge that not all valuable research will be completely free of ethical concerns. In this instance, the question we must ask ourselves is this: is the effect of changing vote counts, but not the election outcome itself, justified by the benefits of the research study? The fact that the researchers accounted for a previous election to decide which election to influence repairs some damage.  This analysis redeems atleast partly the principles of beneficience and respect for law with regards to the negative impacts of the experiment. In my opinion, the results of the experiment are extremely helpful in maintaining the health of a democracy and laying the foundations of future research into voter turnout and election information. Hence, this prior analyis justified the experiment under the beneficience principle. The confirmation that the election was indeed left uninfluenced reinforces my argument: valuable research was conducted, which has wide implications for the health of democracies, at the cost of little irritation at best and active frustration of the participants at worst. While voting tallies were influenced, the election was ultimately won by a large margin, and the comparitive fluctations in voting tallies caused by the experiment were mathematically insignifianct given the margin of victory. 

#####Q6) 

This information significantly influences the Justice principle-based evaluation of this experiment. This is because Adam Bonica and his firm gain disproportionately more from this experiment than the populations being experimented on. This is simply because Bonica can use the results of this experiment to gauge how impact-ful his method of ranking political candidates is on actual voter information. This knowledge can help him increase his personal profits by facilitating the development of ranking methodologies that incite people into action more than those methodologies that do not do this. CrowdPac's for-profit nature means that the general beneficience gained from thsi research will be only really help those people who can afford to pay for CrowdPac's services. Data protection policies and data usage by CrowdPac from the experiment might also change the "beneficience" element of this experiment, as a new potential risk is the profit-seeking, anti-beneficial capitalist use of the data at hand. There will be a conflict of interest if the academic nature of this work was used to justify its high potential for profit and monetary gains by the firm in question. Moreover, this information further jeporadizes the legality of this experiment as voting tallies were influenced for monetary gain of a private company. The notion that this research was deployed without an adequate respect for persons is further worsened against its monetary potential and financial gain for a select group of people.  

#####Q7) 

This research did not require the level of deception it used. Participants can be told that they are participating in an experiment, without being informed of the whole paradigm so as to avoid experimental manipulation. This will alleviate concerns of attempting to influence election outcomes as well as the notion that someone is actively manipulating one's political thinking through mail for nefarious purposes. Second, I would have consulted with the local authorities before launching an experiment of this scale. This would have assisted me in dealing with the legally grey nature of this research by clarifying all issues prior to data collection. The researchers could have done this especially well through the use of an open-science preregistration. Third, I would have performed the bulk of this experiment on the internet instead of using mail. A better medium for this type of experiment might have been to use digital methods to stratify voters and then use digital methods to deploy election information to voters. This type of an experiment could have been done on Twitter, where tweets could be used to identify the political affiliation of Montana voters, which could be used to stratify voters. Then either Twitter or email could have been used to deploy the additional information to voters in a manner that is less instrusive than physical mail.  




