## The ethics of the Montana election experiment

### Part 1: Assessing the study using Salganik’s four principles of ethical research (Q1)

#### Respect for Persons:
 
As discussed by Salganik, the principle of Respect for Persons includes two distinct components: 1) individuals should be treated as having control over their own lives and 2) individuals with diminished autonomy should be entitled to additional protections. In practice, this means that researchers should receive informed consent from participants before conducting experiments. In the Montana election experiment, researchers sent mailers to 102,780 registered voters in Montana without informed consent before the experiment. Although this does somewhat violate the principle of Respect of Persons, I think the contents of mailers also provide information implicitly informing participants that they are probably selected to a study. By the end of the flyer, voters are told that “This guide was created as part of a joint research project at Stanford and Dartmouth”. Many of these voters are probably aware that they are in an experiment and the actual voting behavior is under this awareness. Therefore, voters have their own judgement on the information embedded in the mailer and probably treat it the same as other flyers of candidates. Consequently, the study does not fully violate the principle of Respect for Persons. 

#### Beneficence:

The principle of Beneficence requires researchers to conduct risk/benefit analysis of the planned studies and decide whether there exists an appropriate ethical balance between risks and benefits of their studies. The most notable problem of the Montana election experiment is that it does not fully assess whether the experiment strikes a favorable balance. In fact, this project was only submitted to the Dartmouth Institutional Review Board (IRB) for review but not to the Stanford IRB. What is worse, the researcher of the Dartmouth College only submitted another flyer project for IRB approval which is substantially different from the Montana Flyer project by not using state seal and involving fewer participants. This means that the assessment of this experiment is very inadequate, which probably makes the experiment exposed to more undetected ethical concerns. Without sufficient evaluation, this experiment loses the opportunity to minimize potential risks by improving the experiment design. 

Besides, it seems hard to decide whether risks or benefits outweigh another in this experiment. The goal of this experiment is to understand whether providing voters with more information would increase turnout in low-turnout elections. The benefits could be substantial since it helps to find potential strategies for broadening voter turnout and improving voters’ decision making. However, some potential risks probably erode the benefits. For instance, mapping estimated ideological positions of candidates onto a liberal-conservative spectrum may introduce partisan information to the non-partisan race. This is a main reason that Montana Secretary filed a formal complaint. Additionally, given the mailers were designed with State Seal, the voters might lose some confidence of their state’s judicial system since they thought they were officially offered partisan information on a non-partisan election. Therefore, it is difficult to claim whether risks outweigh benefits or not.
 
#### Justice:

The principle of Justice focuses on the fair distribution of the burdens and benefits of research. This requires researchers not to let one group bear all costs of research while other groups take the benefits. In the experiment, 102,780 voters in Montana bore the burdens of the research. Nevertheless, since researchers intended to explore turnout of low-turnout elections, the beneficiary should be the whole society.  The inconsistency of population bearing the burdens and enjoying the benefits conflicts with the underlying idea of Justice. Moreover, apart from knowing that no compensation for participants in this research, we are not clear whether the benefits are evenly distributed across the society. 

#### Respect for Law and Public Interest:  

The idea of Respect for Law and Public Interest, as stated in the Menlo Report, is to encourage researchers to identify and obey relevant laws and contracts when implementing their research. However, researchers of this experiment failed to follow this principle by potentially violating four state elections law of Montana. It seems that they did not identify and understand the laws of Montana thoroughly. Using the state seal without authorization is another unwise decision, which could be avoided if they evaluate the experiment design rigorously. Actually, the purpose of sending mailers to voters is to offer them more information about elections. This could definitely be realized in the same manner by involving other information irrelevant to candidates, which is less likely subject to the restrictions of laws.  

### Part 2: Conditions under which this experiment could affect the outcome of the election (Q2 and Q3)

If voters of a state have explicit preference on political ideology, randomly sending mailers that contain partisan information of candidates across the state may affect the outcome of the Supreme Court Justice election. The result likely ends up with choosing candidates who are in line with the dominant political ideology, which probably is not desired for a non-partisan election. In this experiment, the targeted state, Montana, is strongly perceived as liberal. Consequently, the random sampling of sending mailers would result in the winning of candidates who are recognized as the most liberal ones by researchers. 
 
In fact, the mailers were sent to voters of whom two thirds are identified as likely liberal to centrist leaning while the rest are identified as conservative to centrist leaning. The justification of determining the disparity between Democratic and Republican numbers seems reasonable to me because the experiment centered around whether the elections’ turnout can be increased by providing voters with more information. Therefore, it is proper to put more weight on the group with apparently lower turnout rate. Someone may argue that this does not satisfy the principle of Justice by not evenly distributing risks within the sample. However, I think the major violation of Justice is located in the inconsistency between risk-bearing groups and beneficiaries. Hence, I would not change my assessment of the research design in ethical considerations. 

### Part 3: Closeness of the election (Q4 and Q5)

Given the reasons why researchers chose this election does not change my overall assessment of the research. Although considering the closeness of these contests reveals their concern about accidentally changing the outcome of the election by their experiment and their carefulness of selecting research scenarios, this probably has little impact on evaluating their research design in the view of four principles. 

The results of the election would also not change my evaluation of the research. Although the researchers correctly anticipated that these two judicial races would not be closely contested, they still let voters of Montana exposed to risks and broke the four state laws mentioned by Jonathan Motl. The ethical issues of using the state seal without authorization and not submitting their experiment to both institutes’ IRBs cannot be alleviated by the fact that the outcomes of election followed the researchers’ expectation. 

### Part 4:  Importance of CrowdPAC (Q6)

The fact that Adam Bonica, who is one of the principal investigators for this experiment, is also the co-founder of a for-profit company funding political campaigns causes additional ethical concerns about the study. The company, which is called CrowdPAC, not only calculates objective scores for political candidates but also offers tools to organize activist communities and fund political campaigns at the same time. Based on the all existing information about the study, we cannot immediately tell the specific changes of assessment for the research. However, it is suspected that using mailers with left-right spectrum illustrating candidates’ political ideology would probably do someone a favor as part of campaign strategies. If this is the case, this further violates the principles of Justice and Respect for Law and Public Interest since the burdens of the study are borne by the chosen voters while the major benefits are shared by CrowdPAC and their clients. 

### Part 5: What would you do differently (Q7)

In this part, I am going to describe some improvements that I would like to make in terms of the four underlying principles. Firstly, I would attempt to ask for informed consent from participants before conducting the experiment. This probably could be done by giving voters the option of whether to receive more information about non-partisan election. Presumably, one may concern about the selection bias since voters who would like to receive more information are more likely to vote for elections. However, I think this could be alleviated by reweighting participants’ action based on their historical voting behavior. 

Secondly, instead of providing extra information about candidates’ political ideology, I would like to provide participants with more information on the specific location of voting booths and why it is important to participate in non-partisan elections. It is not only the information relevant to candidates would potentially increase the turnout of voting. Sometimes, people do not show up on the polling venue due to the lack of information or awareness of these not sufficiently publicized elections. Moreover, to improve the effectiveness and secure the diversity of information, I plan to create a simple micro-task on a crowdsourcing Internet marketplace such as Amazon Mechanical Turk to ask people to identify some provided factors and supplement other factors that would determine their decision on whether to poll non-partisan elections. With more effective information provided on mailers, the effect of having extra information on increase the turnout of low-turnout elections is supposed to be more precise. 

In addition, to accurately estimate the probability of adverse events and reduce the severity of those events, I would not only submit the project to IRB but also ask other reliable third parties outside the academia to assess the validity of the study. This should be helpful to reach a proper balance between the risks and benefits and provide guidance to revise the experiment design. 
