## Optimizing the send-out timing and frequency for email marketing 

### 1. Introduction:

Nowadays, emails have become an indispensable tool for human beings to keep in touch with others or obtain useful information. Particularly, sending promotional emails have been widely adopted as an important revenue generating tactic in business. Although customers are willing to receive promotional emails from companies that they are interested in, sometimes the highly frequent send-out emails are quite annoying and consequently trigger the action of marking emails as spam or even unsubscribing. This is the terrible result that no marketer wants to end up with, which may not only result in low click-through rates on websites but also increase the customer complaints. Thus, what is the optimal frequency to send out promotional emails so that they are most likely to be read by customers and when should they be sent out? 

Based on the questions described above, this project intends to figure out the optimal send-out timing and frequency of promotional emails in terms of customers’ preferences. Specifically, the overall optimum will be determined by considering the heterogeneous preferences over different age groups of customers. By combining the observational data that contain the actual email checking behaviors of customers with a survey data representing customers’ preferences of receiving emails, the project plans to employ the method of multilevel regression and post-stratification (hereinafter referred to as MRP) to yield a generally preferable timing and frequency for email marketing. 

### 2. Survey research design:

#### 2.1 Data: 
In this study, I am going to use two sources of data. Firstly, the data that capture the actual behaviors of reading promotional emails among customers are required. These digital-traced observational data should be already available since most companies have employed some computer technology to track whether their subscribers read the promotional emails or not. For example, the behavior of clicking the links embedded in promotional emails or deleting emails can be automatically recorded once a subscriber triggers the action. Someone may concern about the accessibility of the data since companies are exposed to the risk of revealing the privacy of their subscribers. Nevertheless, this project mainly cares about people’s behaviors of reading emails rather than some sensitive personal characteristics, it is safe for companies to share the data. Moreover, this project helps companies to improve their email marketing and eventually increase revenues by finding the optimal timing and frequency of sending promotional emails. Therefore, it is achievable to ask companies for the permission of using these data. 

Secondly, I am going to collect the survey data by directly asking all target subscribers about their personal preferences on the frequency of receiving promotional emails and the preferable time of receiving them within a day. As mentioned before, this study would like to consider preference heterogeneity over different age groups of subscribers. Hence, one underlying question is to ask subscribers to identify their age groups. Specific ranges of ages will be provided, for example, < 18, 18-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-59, and >60. The age ranges can be different from company to company since the consumer groups of some commodities might be quite distinct from others. In other words, this question can be customized according to the company’s characteristics. Other survey questions would ask for how often they would like to receive emails and which two-hour time interval in a day they prefer to receive emails. The former question will provide respondents with four options which are weekly, at least once a week, monthly, and at least once a month. Respondents who choose the second and fourth option need to write down the specific number of times they want to receive emails weekly or monthly.

The target set of subscribers is determined by the behaviors of reading emails found in the digital-traced observational data. Subscribers who have a probability of reading promotional emails lower than a predetermined threshold will be selected into the target sample. Then I can collect data by sending them the survey via email. To secure a relatively high response rate, every subscriber will be informed in the survey email that they have the chance to win some vouchers or gifts by finishing the survey.
 
#### 2.2 Description of research design:
Before asking for observational data from companies, I need to determine which companies should be included in the study. It seems impossible to optimize the uniform frequency and timing of sending promotional emails for companies from all different industries. Therefore, I would like to select some representative companies from two or three industries where email marketing plays a significant role in generating revenues. The most appropriate sectors would be clothing, daily commodities and cosmetic industries. After selecting some representative companies for each industry, the optimizing procedure will be conducted for each industry respectively. 

As mentioned in part 2.1, the digital-traced observational data obtained from selected companies record the real personal behaviors of reading promotional emails. I intend to use these observational data to determine which subscriber should be included into the target sample to receive an extra survey. Since the purpose of adjusting current timing and frequency of sending promotional emails is to make more subscribers browse companies’ websites more frequently, the personal preferences of those who do not actively read the emails are very valuable. Therefore, an extra survey will be sent to those subscribers who are selected into the target sample. The concrete survey questions have been specified in part 2.1. 

After getting the survey data, I plan to use MRP to yield unbiased estimates. Someone may concern about whether the homogeneous-response-propensities-within-groups assumption is satisfied for the target sample. Although people included in the sample are generally less satisfied with current frequency and timing of receiving emails and they can be divided into different age groups, it is not reasonable to believe that people within the same age group have the same probability to participate in the survey. However, it still sounds proper to use MRP because this project only cares about certain people’s preferred time and frequency of receiving emails, which seems to have no correlation with response propensity. The next step is to construct multilevel regression models so that I can find the average preferred frequency and timing over each group. Finally, I will conduct the post-stratification which adjusts the results according to the proportion of each age group in the whole subscriber population. Each age group’s prevalence in the subscriber population will be obtained by talking with the market manager of each company. 

#### 2.3 Strengths of research design:

The first strength of using digitally-enhanced survey in this study is that it saves costs and increases flexibility. Instead of printing out survey questions and assigning some employees to implement the survey or having interviews via phones, the survey can now proceed by sending emails to targeted objects. Besides, receivers of the survey have the flexibility to complete the survey when they are free rather than just reject the survey request when it comes at a busy time. 

Moreover, combining the digital-traced observational data with a survey data is supposed to increase the accuracy of the results. With an extra survey data from the desired group of people, the problem of incompleteness in the observational data can be alleviated. In particular, I directly ask about personal preferences of receiving emails from people with lower reading rate of promotional emails. This internal-state information obviously cannot be captured in the observational data which are passively collected. 

The third strength of this research design should be the use of MRP. Rather than simply taking the average result over all responses, MRP provides a technique to post-stratify the results in terms of each group’s prevalence. It is conceivable that different age groups have different preferences of receiving emails and the raw results of respondents might be biased due to the inconsistent composition between the survey sample and the true population. Hence, the use of MRP increases the accuracy and credibility of the study. 

In addition, the combination of using closed-ended and open questions should contribute to truly reflecting respondents' preferences, which is eventually expected  to deliver a relatively high accuracy of the result. Also, relatively short length of the survey and the chance of winning gifts should be helpful to guarantee an acceptable response rate. 

#### 2.4 Weaknesses of research design: 
The potential representation errors should be the major concern of this research design. Based on the survey sample described above, I only consider the preferences of people who are less satisfied with current timing and frequency of promotional emails. Potentially, the adjustment would make subscribers who are currently satisfied feel a bit uncomfortable. Thus, the degree of adjustment should be moderated if it is quite different from the original scheme. Additionally, the implementation of changing the timing and frequency should proceed gradually. Another potential source of representation errors is the non-response bias. Although I try to secure the response rate by keeping the length of survey short and incentivizing people with gifts, the non-response bias probably still exists. If the non-response bias is non-negligible in practice, I will attempt to identify the underrepresented groups and proceed another survey exclusive for them. 

Another weakness is that it seems to be challenging to construct a multilevel regression model. Although I have justified that it is appropriate to adopt MRP in this study, the violation of homogeneous-response-propensities-within-groups assumption or potentially other necessary conditions make it hard to build a suitable model. 
