# Predicting motorcycle ownership from mobile phone data 

## 1. Introduction
During the last decade, the accessibility of large volume of digitally-collected data has enabled new methods of demographic and economic measurements. This is particularly beneficial to policy makers and researchers in developing countries where reliable quantitative data of demographic and economic characteristics are usually scarce. Due to the scarcity of big data from social media and increasing coverage of mobile phones in developing countries (GSMA Intelligence, 2017), mobile phone data are widely employed to address questions in social and economic research. For instance, Blumenstock et al. (2015) and Steele et al. (2017) use mobile phone data, more specifically, mobile operator Call Detail Records, to predict the distribution of wealth and poverty for Rwandan and to map the distribution of poverty with three different measures for Bangladesh respectively. Besides, Bjorkegren (2015) proposes a method to estimate the adoption of a network good, which is mobile phone in his project, with the use of Call Detail Records from mobile phone operators in Rwandan. 

The ubiquitous adoption of mobile phone data should be attributed to rich information behind the transaction logs of mobile phones. We can not only capture the individual’s social network position via the frequency and timing of phone calls, but also find out individual’s location and travel pattern by the measure of travel distance. However, most of previous literature focuses on the information about total volume, frequency and timing of calls and messages and the number of contacts (Blumenstock et al. 2015), which are relevant to the feature of individual’s social network. By contrast, this project intends to predict motorcycle ownership by extracting the information related to individual’s mobility from the mobile phone data in Indonesia.  

As the largest motorcycle sales economy in Southeast Asia, Indonesia has experienced a substantial decline in motorcycle sales since 2014 (AISI, 2017). Although the nationwide macroeconomic conditions have been improved with a rebound in car sales, Indonesia’s motorcycle sales continue to decline (Indonesia – investment, 2017). The weak consumer purchasing power among the bottom half of middle class mainly accounts for the persistent decline in motorcycle sales. So when will the bottom half of country’s middle class rebuild their purchasing power so that they are confident to purchase motorcycles without worrying about their basic living needs? What actions should be taken by the domestic motorcycle companies to keep themselves from a severe loss? These questions can be reasonably addressed or alleviated if we are able to predict individual’s future consumption of motorcycles, especially for the bottom half of country’s middle class. However, the prediction of consumer behavior of motorcycles is unreachable with the traditional data that only involve the number of sales. Hence, this project attempts to use big data such as mobile phone data containing personal characteristics to finalize the prediction. 
## 2. Data
This project plans to obtain mobile phone data from all the seven mobile operators (Telkomsel, Indosat, XL Axiata, 3 Indonesia, SmartFren, Bakrie Telecom and Internux (Bolt)) that compete for revenues in the Indonesian mobile market (BuddeComm, 2017). The data are chosen to cover the period from January 2014 to January 2015 since this is the year that witnessed the negative transition of motorcycle sales. The volume of the data should be approximately 102 million given the population of 255.1 million in 2014 (World Bank, 2017) and the penetration rate about 40% of the overall population (BuddeComm, 2017). Compared to the traditional limited data, the enormous volume of mobile phone data facilitates the analytical ability by not only including many observations but also containing a lot of information per observation. This is crucial for predicting consumer behavior since only when we collect enough data can the dominated pattern stand out from a variety of potential outcomes. 

One potential concern about using data described above is that they may not be representative for people in this research interest. This is because the proportion of middle class in the total population is larger than the penetration rate of mobile phones, which means that part of bottom half of Indonesian middle class is excluded in the collected data. Consequently, the prediction of motorcycle ownership would be probably overestimated, reflecting a larger purchasing power than what it should be. To alleviate this concern, I am going to scale down the result by the proportional difference of purchasing power between people belonging to higher income levels and people belonging to the bottom half of middle class. 

Another essential concern is about how to obtain the access to mobile phone data from all seven mobile operators in the market. Presumably, companies worry about the potential of revealing their subscribers’ features to their competitors so that they are exposed to the risk of losing some of their customers.  To address this problem, I am going to sign a confidentiality agreement with each company so that they are under the legal protection. Additionally, one conceivable reason of rejecting the request is that mobile operators do not see any benefits of providing the data. One possible way is to build collaborative relationship between mobile operators and motorcycle companies so that both parties can get benefits. 

Moreover, since transaction logs of mobile phones usually contain various information irrelevant to the prediction of motorcycle ownership, it is necessary to filter out redundant information before conducting the prediction procedure. This will be elaborated in next section.
 
## 3. Research Design 
The research design adopted in this project is inspired by Blumenstock et al. (2015). Firstly, an extra survey data with relatively small sample size is desired to assist in-sample prediction. After randomly drawing people from all mobile phone subscribers, I plan to ask one question about whether they have motorcycles in 2015. This collected survey data is regarded as the in-sample data for prediction and I am going to predict the motorcycle ownership for mobile phone subscribers based on their historical phone records over January 2014 to January 2015. 

Secondly, as mentioned in Section 2, I need to extract the most relevant information about prediction of motorcycle ownership. After transforming mobile phone transaction logs of each individual into a set of quantitative metrics, filtering out metrics that do not have prediction power of motorcycle ownership takes place. Particularly, metrics generated from patterns of individual’s mobility and location changes are most likely to be kept.  

In the next step, I am going to select a parsimonious model by extracting factors from the most relevant metrics. This can be realized by ‘elastic net’ or least absolute shrinkage selection operator (LASSO) of Tibshirani (1996) since these two approaches set some coefficient estimates to zero exactly if the regressors are uninformative to prediction. This would be helpful to avoid or alleviate the overfitting problem for in-sample prediction. Given the binary feature of the dependent variable (whether or not having motorcycle in 2015), logistic or probit models should be used as well. For the model specification within the logistic model, it is reasonable to start with basic linear specification and then extend to more complicated models with non-linear components. 

Although fitting the model on the mobile survey sample is important, the performance of out-of-sample prediction draws more interest from researchers. Hence, I would like to conduct out-of-sample prediction of motorcycle ownership for the rest mobile phone users who are excluded from the supplemented survey with the model selected by the in-sample data. The strength of predicting motorcycle ownership with big data can be illustrated by its improvement compared to the baseline models. However, since this prediction is hard to finalize with the limited data, the evaluation of prediction performance will be conducted by comparing the predicted result to the actual motorcycle ownership in 2015. 

<div></div>

## References 
Indonesian Motorcycle Industry Association (AISI). “Motorcycle production wholesales domestic and exports.” Accessed October 15, 2017. http://www.aisi.or.id/statistic/. 

Bjorkegren, Daniel. "The adoption of network goods: evidence from the spread of mobile phones in Rwanda." _Browser Download This Paper_ (2015).

Blumenstock, Joshua, Gabriel Cadamuro, and Robert On. "Predicting poverty and wealth from mobile phone metadata." _Science_ 350, no. 6264 (2015): 1073-1076.

BuddeComm. “Indonesia – mobile infrastructure, broadband, operators – statistics and analyses”. Accessed October 15, 2017. https://www.budde.com.au/Research/Indonesia-Mobile-Infrastructure-Broadband-Operators-Statistics-and-Analyses.
 
GSMA Intelligence. “The mobile economy 2017.” Accessed October 15, 2017. https://www.gsma.com/mobileeconomy/. 

Indonesia – investments. “Motorcycle industry Indonesia yet to yet rebound in sales, why?”  Accessed October 14, 2017. https://www.indonesia-investments.com/news/todays-headlines/motorcycle-industry-indonesia-yet-to-see-rebound-in-sales-why/item7750?

Steele, Jessica E., Pål Roe Sundsøy, Carla Pezzulo, Victor A. Alegana, Tomas J. Bird, Joshua Blumenstock, Johannes Bjelland et al. "Mapping poverty using mobile phone and satellite data." _Journal of The Royal Society Interface_ 14, no. 127 (2017): 20160690.

Tibshirani, Robert. "Regression shrinkage and selection via the lasso." _Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. Series B (Methodological)_ (1996): 267-288.

World Bank. ”Indonesia.” Accessed October 15, 2017. https://data.worldbank.org/country/indonesia. 

