# How the frequency of promotional emails affects subscribers’ consuming propensity?

### 1. Introduction  

Sending promotional emails to customers has become a ubiquitous strategy for marketers, especially for those in clothing, daily commodities and cosmetic industries. Promotional emails are supposed to draw consumers’ interest in recent sales or the new arrivals so that consumers are more likely to buy something in the near future. However, many of these emails are marked as spam or deleted without a glance due to the high emailing frequency. Therefore, how do consumers react to the different frequencies of promotional emails? Does the optimal emailing frequency that stimulates consuming propensity most differ a lot over different age groups of consumers? 

To explore these questions, this study intends to implement a digital field experiment on how the frequency of promotional emails affects consuming propensity of recipients. More specially, this study aims to establish the causal effect of the frequency of promotional emails on subscribers’ consuming propensity with a randomized controlled experiment. Moreover, by considering the potential heterogeneity in the preference of emailing frequency among different age groups, this study is going to measure the treatment effects for different age groups.
 
### 2. Experimental Design

#### 2.1 Recruiting participants

Firstly, I am going to determine the participants. Since sending promotional emails is much more frequent in clothing, daily commodities and cosmetic industries, this study would like to choose subscribers from some growing small to mid-sized companies in the clothing industry in developed countries as participants. Several reasons account for choosing subscribers from the companies that are in the transition of growing small to mid-sized. Firstly, it is most likely to get internal data from these companies since they have less bureaucracy and probably do not have enough resources to conduct analysis by themselves. For example, some of them may lack the enough number of subscribers to conduct a robust experiment and others might have subscribers from a dominant group but they want to expand their operational scale by attracting other consumer groups. Secondly, this study seems to be most useful for these companies because the mid-sized or large companies usually already have a team to improve email marketing in this aspect while other smaller companies have not yet reached the stage that needs to enhance email marketing in this direction. Besides, the reason of choosing companies from developed countries is that the internet penetration rate is approximately 80% in developed countries (Internet World Stats, 2017), which probably guarantees that sending promotional emails is widely adopted as a marketing tactic. 

As a result, this study plans to select about 100 thousand subscribers in total from the companies selected by the average number of employees over the last five years in the range of 50 to 250. The composition of selected companies would be similar to that in the overall clothing industry, which should be helpful to guarantee the diversity of consumers remains the same as that in the real clothing industry. 

#### 2.2 Randomizing treatments and delivering treatments

After collecting email addresses of 100 thousand subscribers, I am going to randomly assign them into four groups. The total duration of the experiment will be 6 months and it will be evenly divided into two periods. In the first three months, which is regarded as the baseline period, every participant will receive emails simultaneously from the company that he/she subscribes 2 times a month. The purpose of having the same emailing frequency in the baseline period is to record participants’ reaction within each group as the benchmark for the follow-up period. Each email should be in the same length to eliminate the confounding factor caused by the length of emails. Someone may concern that different contents provided by different companies would have impact on subscribers’ behavior of reading the emails. To alleviate this concern, this experiment is going to make sure that emails sent from different companies actually have the similar type of promotion. Moreover, it is reasonable to assume that consumers from different companies have similar average level of interest in browsing promotional emails since they are originally willing to receive these emails from the company that they subscribe to.

In the second three months, group one to four will receive promotional emails 2 times a month, monthly, 4 times a month and 8 times a month respectively. The choice of these frequencies is based on the most prevalent frequencies in email marketing. Group one can be treated as the control group since all participants in this group will receive emails at the same frequency as that in the baseline period. The length of each email will still be the same and the type of promotional emails sent by each company will remain similar. 

#### 2.3 Measuring the outcomes 

This study is going to be a 4 (frequency: four different frequencies of receiving emails) × 5 (age groups: < 18, 19 – 29, 30 – 39, 40 – 49, > 50) × 2 (time: baseline and follow-up) mixed-factorial design. Frequency and age groups are between-participants factors and time is a within-participants factor. 
As a dependent variable in the experiment, the consuming propensity for each participant will be measured by the proportion of browsing the emails or clicking through the links embedded in the emails out of the total number of emails he/she receives during the three-month baseline period or follow-up period. The underlying assumption of this measurement is that consumers who read more promotional emails are more likely to buy something. This assumption seems acceptable because obtaining more promotion information is supposed to stimulate someone’s consuming desires. 

For independent variables, there will be three underlying dummy variables which represent the treatment group of emailing frequency for each participant. Although this study specifies four emailing frequencies, I only include three corresponding to group two to four to avoid the perfect collinearity in the model. Moreover, the model will include one dummy variable for time which should be 0 if it is in the baseline period. To measure the treatment effect for each frequency, the model will also have three intersection dummy variables between frequency and time. The estimates for these three intersection dummy variables should be the treatment effect of receiving emails monthly, 4 times a month and 8 times a month respectively, which has already eliminated the effect of time trend. 

As mentioned in part 1, participants from different age groups would probably have different reactions to the same treatment. Therefore, within each frequency group, I would like to measure the treatment effects for five age groups specified above. Particularly, there should be four dummy variables for age groups, one dummy variable for time and four intersection terms of age and time. The estimates of intersection terms will be the treatment effect for each age group. By comparing the treatment effect for each age group over different emailing frequencies, it is possible to figure out the preference of emailing frequency for each age group. 

### 3. Assessing the experimental Design

#### 3.1 Validity 

For internal validity, this experiment should satisfy the underlying requirement of correctly randomizing treatments since participants are randomly assigned to each treatment group. By strictly keeping other factors constant, this study properly finalizes the comparisons among control and treatment groups only with the differences in emailing frequency. Besides, this study carefully justifies the reasons of recruiting participants from growing small to mid-sized companies in the clothing industry. This decision is made by not only considering the most beneficiary of the study but also taking the accessibility of data into account. The detailed and careful description of measuring outcomes should also enhance the internal validity as well as the statistical validity. 

The construct validity of this study is probably reasonable since I have briefly justified how to measure the consuming propensity with the data generated by this experiment. Although it is not a perfect choice, it seems to be a suitable measure for consuming propensity within the content of this experiment.  

For external validity, it is probably reasonable to apply the conclusions of this study to other industries which widely send promotional emails to increase profits. However, due to distinct attributes of different industries, we may end up with different conclusions by conducting the same experiment. Another major concern is that whether the conclusions drawn from this experimental design has universality. What will happen if we implement the experiment in a slightly different way? For example, this change could be choosing other emailing frequencies as treatments or selecting 4 or 5 treatment groups rather than 3 treatment groups in this experiment. Thus, the assessment of external validity should require further research with related but different experimental designs as well as more generalized samples of participants. 

#### 3.2 Heterogeneity of treatment effects and causal mechanisms

The measure of heterogeneity of treatment effects is finalized by identifying the differential reactions among age groups to the same treatment of emailing frequency. The results are expected to be acceptable since the number of participants within each treatment group is relatively large, which guarantees that there would be enough participants falling into each age group. Besides, digital data provides me with an easier and more accessible way to get participants’ information such as age or gender, which also enhances the ability of measuring the heterogeneity of treatment effects. Furthermore, the relatively more treatment groups provide the possibility to figure out a more realistic preference of emailing frequency for each age group. 

The causal mechanisms should also be securely identified because the experimental design strictly follows the requirements of randomized controlled experiments via correctly randomizing treatments and making the treatment the only difference over different treatment groups. 

#### 3.3 Comparing an experiment to a survey 

The most substantial strength of implementing an experiment rather than a survey is that it offers me a channel to establish the causal effect between the frequency of promotional emails and consuming propensity. In addition, I do not need to worry about the low response rate of conducting a survey via emails, which might severely erode the reliability of results due to the non-response bias. However, it is usually hard to devise a good experiment by making the treatment as the only difference between control and treatment groups. Although I have justified that the contents sent from different companies might be negligible, it is still possible to affect the results in some way.

### References

Internet World Stats. "Internet usage statistics." Accessed October 29, 2017. http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm