Joseph Denby  
Dr. Benjamin Soltoff  
MACS30000  
Assignment 2  
October 23, 2017  

As in my previous research proposal, I am interested in probing the prevalence of racial discrimination among users on the platform [Airbnb][airbnb]. Over the past year, users on the platform have [reported][hashtag] instances of perceived racial discrimination; specifically, minority users appear to experience tougher luck when applying for stays on available dates. However, this social media movement and accompanying [experiment][Harvard] pertain only to African-American users; the levels of discrimination experienced by users of *other* minorities (including those of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and gender identity) remain to be measured.

In order to robustly study the experience of users on Airbnb, I propose using a web survey-based design to quickly and cheaply gather mass information. For my study, I would partner with Airbnb to construct and disperse a survey to all registered users whose activity level on the platform surpasses a preset threshold. The survey would anonymously ask for self-identified demographic information (such as race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, income, gender identity, etc.). It would then ask a series of questions aimed as assessing that individual user's experience with discrimination on the website. Discrimination can come in many forms, so the survey would attempt to be as nuanced as possible. A preliminary draft for the survey could be as follows:

```
1. Have you experienced blatant discrimination (e.g., hate speech) in interactions with hosts on Airbnb?  
If so, how often?
    * (LIKERT-TYPE SCALE 1-5 PLUS N/A OPTION)
    * (1) - Very Rarely ----------------- (5) - Very Often
2. In general, how difficult is it for you to book a stay when you are looking?
    * (LIKERT-TYPE SCALE 1-5)
    * (1) - Very Difficult -------------- (5) - Very Easy
3. Have you ever been denied a stay for suspicious reasons, including no reason at all?
    * (LIKERT-TYPE SCALE 1-5 PLUS N/A OPTION)
    * (1) - Very Rarely ----------------- (5) - Very Often
```

The questions aim to probe users' experiences with discrimination in different forms - Question 1 asks about overt racism, while Question 3 aims to measure something subtler, akin to what some users had initially taken umbrage with. Question 2 attempts to establish a user's overall satisfaction with the Airbnb service - comparing average responses to this question across populations of interest will be especially revealing. 

The above survey is just an initial draft; it is amenable to changes according to input from experts in communications or psychology. For instance, it is possible that phrasing Question 2 with 'How difficult' instead of 'How easy' influences responses. I would want to consult with knowledgeable parties so as to build a survey that is as minimally leading as possible. This might involve using neutral language in the questions and/or counterbalancing different phrasing options within population groups. The survey could also present the questions in a random order for each participant, in order to control for a presentation effect. Ideally, the questions in the survey should not lead the participants to respond in a particular fashion (i.e., the survey should be as reliable a measure as possible).  

This study qualifies as a **digitally-enhanced** survey because it employs a web-based design to reach a large number of people quickly, cheaply, and with minimal scaled effort. The survey as designed would be sent to all registered users with activity above a predetermined threshold – this population is likely a relatively large portion of Airbnb's estimated [150 million][users] userbase, so even a relatively low response rate would yield information about millions of users. 

Using a survey design is preferable to an observational study simply because the information of interest is easier to source directly from individual users themselves. With an observational study, discrimination would have to be estimated using informational proxies (such as average response rate or applications per single stay) which are prone to noise and misrepresentation and are thus subpar ways to track the variable of interest. Also, an observational study would make measuring within and across demographic groups difficult, as Airbnb does not appear to collect and store that information. With a survey design, users can directly volunteer both their demographic information and experiences with discrimination, circumventing the two most potent challenges to an observational research design.

With a survey-based design however, this proposed study faces some challenges of its own. To start, it might be argued that surveys, since they source  information about and from individual users themselves, are less 'objective' than an observational or experiment-based design. On this line of reasoning, discrimination is not accurately measured by asking individuals, since people have varying degress of sensitivity. This worry is a non-issue for two reasons. First, the 'subjectivity' that accompanies a survey-based design is vastly preferable to the fuzziness accompanying the proxies required for an observational study. Second, subjective experience *is* the phenomenon of interest here - if users collectively report discrimination, that in itself is the notable finding. 

All surveys are susceptible to errors of representation and measurement, albeit to varying degrees. This survey appears to suffer little from measurement error, as users are asked directly about their experiences with discrimination in various forms. Because the questions are direct and rely little on a particular interpretation, survey responses will faithfully probe the relevant information. The degree to which representation error plagues this research design depends on the target population. As stated initially, the research question concerns the prevalence of racial discrimination specifically on the Airbnb platform. It is tempting to use this survey's findings as a stand-in for a survey of a larger population (e.g., that of the entire United States), but doing so would assume that the population of Airbnb is representative of the entire United States. This assumption is not completely far-fetched: Airbnb's publicly available [demographic data][demodata] shows gender parity and only a slight skew towards younger people. But, since there exist no public statistics about the distribution of other variables of interest within Airbnb's user base, it is difficult to know exactly how it maps onto a larger population. In the end however, as long as the inferential conclusions of this study are assigned to the appropriate population, representation error is unlikely to pose a serious problem.

Given that the population of interest and at hand is the entire user base of Airbnb, the survey needs to satisfy two conditions for statistical robustness: it must reach the minority groups of interest; the sample of responses needs to yield adequate representation for each group. As previously mentioned, this research design would aim to send this survey to all users of Airbnb beyond a certain pre-determined activity threshold. The activity requirement is put in place to ensure that respondents are regular users of Airbnb and thus have interacted with other users enough to have a rich set of experiences from which to draw their conclusions about discrimination.

This method of sampling qualifies as a *non-probability* framework seeing as the survey is sent to all users, only a fraction of whom will opt-in by completing the questionnaire. This design does not ensure that all users have an equal chance of completing the survey, introducing a new challenge. The aim of this study is to catalogue experiences of discrimination across various populations of users on Airbnb; in order to draw inferences responsibly, the resulting survey data should be statistically robust. For one, not all respondents should be treated equally; individuals from more niche populations are more statistically valuable. For example, data from an African-American gay woman is more valuable than that from a heterosexual white man since their respective populations are of vastly different sizes. In order to account for this fact, some sort of post-stratification weighting could be conducted, ensuring that each survey response contributes its appropriate worth in any inferential statistics. Post-stratification requires prior knowledge of the proportional distribution of the population along dimensions of interest (e.g., race, gender, sexual orientation, etc.); as previously mentioned, Airbnb does not appear to collect or publish this sort of information, but it could be reasonably extrapolated using demographic information from e.g., the US government. By using said demographic information as a prior, survey responses could be appropriately weighted so they contribute their worth. 

Next, since the survey is opt-in, there might be a problematic link between response probability and outcome measure. Specifically, people who think they experience discrimination might be more likely to respond, which would skew the response sample away from the actual population. Again, in order to make the survey sample as representative as possible, each recipient should have an equal response probability. One way to get at this is to incentivize a response (e.g., $5 off a user's next stay). Incentives would presumably work equally across populations of interest, so a user's response probability would no longer be affected by their outcome measure. By incentivizing a response (in a way that doesn't damage the company's earnings of course), the design would more closely establish an equal response probability across populations of interest, leading to a more representative response sample.  

In sum, this survey-based research proposal asks Airbnb users about their individual experiences with discrimination on the platform. Being a survey, it promises to more accurately measure the variable of interest than a strictly observational study, but it introduces different challenges as well. However, by keeping an appropriate inferential scope and by incentivizing survey response, the survey design serves as a robust and responsible way to assess discrimination. 




[airbnb]: https://www.airbnb.com
[hashtag]: https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/may/05/airbnbwhileblack-hashtag-highlights-potential-racial-bias-rental-app
[Harvard]: http://www.benedelman.org/publications/airbnb-guest-discrimination-2016-09-16.pdf
[users]: http://fortune.com/2017/03/07/airbnb-ceo-hosts/
[demodata]: https://techcrunch.com/2015/09/07/airbnb-hosted-nearly-17-million-guests-this-summer/?ncid=rss
