Joseph Denby  
Dr. Benjamin Soltoff  
MACS30000  
Assignment 6  
November 20, 2017  

For this paper, I will offer an ethical evaluation of the Montana election study conducted by Stanford and Dartmouth researchers as described in [Bit By Bit][bbb]. I will begin by assessing the study as presented by Salganik using the four principles of ethical research discussed in his book. 

##### Respect For Persons
---
According to Bit by Bit, constructing a research design that adequately demonstrates respect for persons comes down to treating all individuals as autonomous over themselves, especially when working with participants with diminished autonomy (e.g., children, prisoners, disabled individuals, etc.). Depending on the particulars of the reserach design in question, this might include securing informed consent from all participants and/or providing a clear means for participants to opt-out. 

The Montana election study, which involved registered voters receiving mailers that ranked local election candidates according to public donation records, did not show explicit respect for persons, even though its 'disrespect' was harmless and reasonable. Voters received the mailers (which, according to the researchers, were meant to purely informational and unbiased) completely unprompted, meaning the researchers did not secure explicit consent from the recipients. Moreover, since the research design aimed to investigate the potential impact of these informational mailers on voting behavior, the recipients could not opt-out of the study at all (seeing as voting records are public information). These facts illustrate how the study violates the respect for persons principle; registered voters should not be forced to inform themselves with publicly available knowledge – this study does exactly that. 

##### Beneficence
---
In his book, Salganik characterizes beneficence in a research design to be an obligation to avoid harming participants (directly or inadvertently) and to maximize potential benefits to participants. According to this understanding of the ethical principle, it is difficult to see how the Montana election study *could* transgress beneficence. Based on the set-up of this study, there are little to no potential benefits or drawbacks to receiving a mailer. The mailer is just meant to serve as one of many potential impacts on voting behavior, so it doesn't add any benefits or risks beyond those typically accompanying voting in local elections. 

If one were to side with the state of Montana and conclude that the mailers served as surreptitious campaign materials, one might argue that the study posed extra risks to the candidates against whom the materials were poised. However, these risks are of a kind with those accompanying more traditional forms of campaigning (e.g., attack advertisements, newspaper editorials, endorsements, etc.), so as it stands this study does not appear to be anything other than beneficent to all relevant populations.

##### Justice
---
Next, Salganik argues that the ethical principle of justice involves a research design's equitable distribution of risks and rewards, both within and as a result of the study in question. This framework swings in two directions: a just research design will not unfairly single out particular populations to experiment upon, and it will not produce results that solely benefit a tightly circumscribed population. Based on this characterization of justice, it is clear that the Montana election study adheres to this ethical benchmark. 

First, the results of study certainly would not unduly benefit a specific population. On the contrary, it seems that this study aims to evaluate a potential source of influence on voting behavior generally, a fact which would be equally relevant to all participants in the political system. So, the fruits of this study would not be unjustly distributed.

Next, it is not immediately obvious how this study as described unjustly preys upon a particular population. The research design calls for the mailers to be distributed among a sample of registered voters, who are by no means an espcially vulnerable population on their own. The exact degree to which this design adheres to the principle of justice might turn upon the specific sampling method – a given group might have been targeted over and above others, say – but, barring any egregious transgressions, this study appears to solidly meet the mark for justice.

##### Respect for Law and Public Interest
---
Finally, an ethical research design should abide by the principle of respect for the law and for the general public interest. Again, this principle can break down into two distinct components. First, a respectful research design will take care to act in accordance with any relevant laws, contracts, and terms of service. Failing to do so can result in serious legal risk as well as an ethically compromised design. Second, a respectful research design will attempt to be as transparent as possible when it comes to the goals, methods, conduct, and results of the study. Intentionally obfuscating any part of the design without adequate justification (e.g., avoiding response bias or confounds) would show disrespect for the public interest.

The Montana election study does not appear to have met these standards to an acceptable degree, as evidenced first and foremost by a ruling by Montana's Commissioner of Political Practices, which finds that the research design violated Montana law by furnishing campaign materials without the appropriate justification. Moreover, the mailer included the Great Seal of the State of Montana, which, since it was decidedly not a product of the state government, may constitute illegal use. Even if the inclusion of the seal turns out to be legal, at the very least it is interpretable as misrepresenting the content and authority of the mailer and thus misleading the recipients in a disrespectful manner. Since this study did not take adequate measures to render transparent the organizations and purpose behind the mailer, it decidedly does not satisfy the ethical principle of respect for the law and public interest.

##### Further Questions
---
2. If the mailers were sent out to a truly random sample of eligible voters, the study may have altered the outcome of the election by inadvertently swaying voters in a particular direction. By reducing politically complex candidates to one dimension and ranking them, using Barack Obama and Mitt Romney – themselves *vastly* complex individuals with significantly different public conceptions - as ideological landmarks, the mailers could have pushed voters towards or away from one end of the spectrum. Due to this vast oversimplification, the mailing might have had a serious (and potentially decisive) impact on the election.

3. By choosing not to conduct a truly random sample in favor of a sample that purportedly corresponded to anticipations about voter turnout, this study violates the principle of justice. The sampling method that the researchers employed meant that Democrats and Republicans were not treated equally; Democrats were particularly singled out as candidates for the study, which seems to directly go against a core principle of just research design. The attempt at justifying this decision by referencing anticipated voter turnout doesn't fly: if Democrats were emphasized as the target participant population because they were less likely to vote, and the study's mailers were an attempt to boost voter participation, this study could be interepreted as blatantly attempting to swing the election in one direction (thus benefiting a particular popuation, viz., Democrats), a clear violation of justice. 

4. The fact that the researchers chose this specific election because history demonstrated it to be a typically uncontentious race appears to me to reflect favorably upon the research design. By choosing this election, the researchers made a conscious effort to minimize the possibility of this study's having a substantial and long-lasting effect. Failing to consider the potential impact of this study (perhaps by inadvertently meddling in a close race) would be irresponsible on the part of the researchers, serving as a violation of the ethical principle of respect for the law and public interest, perhaps among others.

5. The actual result of the election further supports my belief about the researchers' decision. Had the election been much closer than originally anticipated, the researchers would be guilty of irresponsible, myopic, and, potentially, unethical research design, since it would've been clear that their study exerted undue influence. 

6. Learning that one of this study's researchers could use the outcome of the experiment to boost the effectiveness of his company absolutely changes the assessment of the research design; specifically, it seriously jeopardizes this design's standing with respect to the ethical principle of justice. As previously discussed, a just research design is one that yields results that are beneficial to a broad audience – succinctly, the fruits of the research should be widespread. For this study, one of the researchers involved owns a company that uses this study's exact methodology to score candidates, organize communities, and fund political campaigns; so, any results from this study pertain directly to the profitability of the company's *modus operandi*. Particularly since the mailers are so close to what this company offers as a product, the results from this study become polluted by the special interests of (one of) its researchers. 

7. To avoid some of the ethical pitfalls this study encounters, I would change a few things about its design. First, to correct the prominent lack of respect for the law and public interest, I would prioritize communication and coordination with the local government to ensure that the mailer I use does not enter into the realm of campaigning materials. By agreeing with local officials on an acceptable template and format for the mailer, I would avoid the legal and ethical troubles that currently beset this design. Some obvious changes to the mailer template would be eliminating the Great Seal of Montana and doing away with Barack Obama and Mitt Romney as ideological landmarks. Using the Great Seal is clearly in bad faith, particularly without explicitly consulting the state government; dropping it from the mailer would correct this blatant disrespect for the participants. By erasing the 2012 presidential candidates from the mailer (or, at the very least, replacing them), I would avoid the mailer's potential to unduly sway voters towards or away from certain local election candidates. Associating candidates with those contentious figures makes the mailer harder to characterize as 'purely informative', muddying the study's intent and results. Next, I would correct this study's sampling mistake by opting for a simple random sample instead of a targeted ideological sample motivated by prior voting records. By using a more straightforward sampling methodology, I would dodge any accusations of intent to impact the election. This more transparent sampling method would demonstrate my study's commitment to the ethical principles of justice and respect for law and public interest. On whole, I think this study's research design is good – I would want to do something similar were I to study the effects of furnishing information to potential voters on voting behavior. My adjustments would be the slight methodological changes outlined above, mostly to correct for some of the ethical missteps the original design makes.

[bbb]:http://www.bitbybitbook.com/en/ethics/ethics-activities/

