
# Assignment 6 The ethics of the Montana election experiment 
### Siyi fan

## 1. Assess this study using Salganik's four principles of ethical research.

The first principle, Respect for Persons, says that individuals should be treated as autonomous. Applying to this research, first of all, participants neither received relevant information in a comprehensible format of this study, nor voluntarily agreed to join and they even didn’t realize they were included in a study. The flyers started to show up in the mailboxes of Montanans and this amounted to approximately 15% of the 2014 registered voters. The fake state seal made individuals feel all the statements were supported by the state and two polarizing candidates Barack Obama and Mitt Romney could have a huge impact on voters’ behaviors directly by diminishing their autonomy. This is a research practice to perform political science experiment that has a real chance of affecting the outcome of an election, making people feel being coerced by a government entity and mistrust in state government. Secondly, this fake election guide affected voting in two 2014 Montana Supreme Court Justice races. The outcome of a Supreme Court race will then influence the lives of candidates and more people of Montana. In this way, the researchers bypassed the process of informed consent to both receivers and Montanans and made this study ethically impermissible.

The next principle, Beneficence, has two parts: “(1) do not harm and (2) maximize possible benefits and minimize possible harms”. In practice, it involves two processes: (1) a risk/benefit analysis and (2) a decision about whether the risks and benefits strike an appropriate ethical balance. First of all, Rodden et al. neither adjusted the study design to reduce the probability of an adverse event, nor reduced the severity of an adverse event if it occurs. The harms are that those particular mailers by adding a small amount of partisan information to an officially nonpartisan might make them lose support for the state judicial system. Thus, it is not obvious that researchers have taken any steps to minimize the risks. Secondly, this study failed to strike a favorable balance. The participants were manipulated without awareness and also without getting any benefits. It seems like the purpose of this study were realized because of significant results, however, it could be presented in a more ethical way. Also for participants, it serves more like a political purpose rather than a research purpose.  Finally, they ignored the fact that their fake election guide had an impact not only on participants, but also non-participants, candidates who lost the election, and definitely disrupted the political process in Montana and the broad social systems, thereby impacting the constitutional rights of voters in that state. Since this research brought more harms than good and it is not clear whether a risk/benefit analysis has been conducted, Rodden et al. missed the principle of beneficence and made this study ethically impermissible. 

The third principle, Justice, is adhered to, “the risks and benefits are distributed fairly”. As I mentioned above, none of the participants got compensation after the study and they all suffered from political harms, so they were all treated equally. Besides, Dan Schunar, a Californian political ethic expert (Richman, 2015) pointed out the issue of Justice, revealing that the researchers deliberately chose to send out mailers in Montana instead of California because they assumed Montanans were less politically intellectual. If this is true, then Rodden et al obviously violated the third principle. Furthermore, the view of Justice also passes on two ideas: protection and access. Obviously, the researchers didn’t consider if subjects are vulnerable and whether their behaviors will bring potential harms to the whole society. Let alone to say provided protection to all participants. Even if marginalized groups were included, it is not the intention of this study and they didn’t get access to benefits. Therefore, the researchers didn’t follow the principle of Justice and made this study ethically impermissible. 

The last principle is Respect for Law and Public Interest, comprised of its two parts: (1) Compliance and (2) Transparency-based Accountability. Practicing compliance is attempting to identify and obey relevant laws, contracts, and terms of service, while practicing Transparency means that researchers are clear about the goals, methods, and results at all stages of their research process and take responsibility for their actions. First of all, according to Motl ruling (2015), researchers didn’t provide experiment design to IRB at each institution, didn't register, report or disclose with the COPP the value of the independent expenditures made in the 2014 Montana Supreme court Justice elections. Secondly, the use of state seal broke the Montana election law, which states that it is a misdemeanor to “purposely disseminate to any elector information about election procedures that is incorrect or misleading or gives the impression that the information has been officially disseminated by an election administrator.” Indeed, the presence of the seal gives the impression that the Montana government was involved in distributing the flyers, and without permission of the office of the Secretary of State to use the Great Seal is in violation of state election law. Additionally, the researchers also violated three campaign laws filed by Secretary of State Linda McCulloch. Third, researchers didn’t take responsibilities of their actions, because they only spread out an apology letter to participants while at the same time disagreed with the ruling. 

## 2. Assume that the mailers were sent to a random sample of voters: under what conditions might this mailing have altered the outcome of the Supreme Court Justice election?

Assuming that the mailers were sent to a random sample of voters, if the mailers could be distributed equally among Republicans and Democrats, then the outcome may be altered. But if not, replacing candidates with politicians, and thus shifting voters’ attention from political inclinations to personal characteristics, might have altered the outcome of the Supreme Court Justice election. This is largely due to the reason that mailers could change the election result. For example, if there were more Democrats than Republicans among those who were not willing to vote originally, but after receiving mails on Republican candidate, those Republican non-voters may decide to endorse their party and Republican may have a higher chance to win.

## 3. In fact, the mailers were not sent to a random sample of voters. According to a report by Jeremy Johnson (a political scientists who assisted in the investigation), mailers "were sent to 64,265 voters identified as likely liberal to centrist leaning in Democratic leaning precincts and 39,515 voters identified as conservative to centrist in Republican leaning precincts. The researchers justified the disparity between Democratic and Republican numbers on grounds that they anticipated turnout to be significantly lower among Democratic voters." Does this change your assessment of the research design? If so, how?

The truth is that the mailers were not sent randomly. According to the analysis above on four ethnical principles, the researchers still violated the principle of “Respect for person”, “Beneficence”, and “Respect for Law and Public Interest”, but my judgments on “Justice” are altered. Researchers provided more information for Democrats, which means that they will be more influenced by the election, either in good ways or bad ways. The positive side is that more Democrats will go to vote and offset the discrepancy the researchers anticipated, while the downside is that it will create a new discrepancy between two groups, that is, one group of society “bears the costs of research” while another group “reaps its benefits”. And the benefits and costs are brought directly by the researchers’ anticipation. Thus, Rodden et al. violated the principle of Justice in a step further. Besides, “anticipation” rather than strong explanations reflects researchers didn’t take risk/analysis, and thus missing the principle of Beneficence. 

## 4. In response to the investigation, the researchers said that they picked this election in part because "neither judicial race had been closely contested in the primary. Based on an analysis of the 2014 primary election results in the context of previous Montana judicial elections, the researchers determined that the research study as designed would not change the outcome of either contest." Does this change your assessment of the research? If so, how?

I won’t change my assessment on most ethnical aspects of this research, specifically on the principle of Respect for Persons, Justice, and Respect for Law and Public Interest. As for Beneficence, since researchers analyzed the 2014 primary election results, I would say they did a risk analysis and took actions to minimize those risks. However, it is not clear if the 2014 primary election results could be applied to contest election. 

## 5. In fact, the election turned out to be not particularly close.

Even if the election turned out to be not close, the operations of the whole study are still unethical. All participants got impacted, the integrity of the voting community got spoiled, and this study didn’t follow the state laws and related research procedures. Besides, in both Supreme Court Justices, liberal candidates received majority of votes (Jim Rice: 78.22% and Mike Wheat: 59.06%). This discrepancy may be the results of disparity on mailers.

## 6. One of the principal investigators for the Montana election study (Adam Bonica) is also the co-founder of CrowdPAC, a for-profit company which "calculates objective scores for political candidates showing their overall political position" using, in part, the same data used to score the judicial candidates in Montana. While a source of objective information for voters to make decisions about candidates, CrowdPAC also provides tools to organize activist communities and fund political campaigns (all for a fee). Does this change your assessment of the research? If so, how?

I won’t change my assessment simply because of one investigator’s title. But I am wondering if there is any possibility that Adam Bonica and CrowdPAC got profits from this study?  since they had opportunities to score candidates based on various data and sell that information? If so, then the researches would break more relevant laws and violate the first principle – Respect for Persons, since the contribution of participants are not to the scientific purpose, but for personal gain and loss. When mixing political and business tools together, then the research purpose is not pure anymore. 

## 7. What, if anything, would you have done differently if you were the principal investigators? How would you have designed the study if you were interested in exploring whether additional information increases voter turnout in nonpartisan races?

First of all, I will submit the experimental design to IRB at each institution and Montana Supreme Court to get their approvals. If my experimental design got passed, I will send out the first mail on Ethical-response surveys to residents, so that I can gather people’s attitudes on ethical issues of political experiments, which enables the whole research team to pose multiple versions of a research project in order to assess the perceived ethical balance of different versions of the same project. After that, the second mail as consent forms will be sent out to residents, which include six parts: (1) informing participants that I am conducting a research under the support of two institutions and approved by Montana Supreme Court; (2) a statement of only research purpose, not political or economic purpose; (3) a brief introduction of the research background, what does participating involve, what do participants receive from taking part; (4) The statement that participation is completely voluntary; (5) The statement that the data will be kept anonymous, but laws and university rules might require researchers to disclose information about subjects. For example, if required by laws or University Policy, study information you supply may be seen or copied by the following people or groups: a) The university committee and office that reviews and approves research studies, the IRB and Office for Protection of Research Subjects; and b) University and state auditors, and Departments of the university responsible for oversight of research; (6) The potential risks to participating this study. And finally attach OPRS and my contact information. A week later, I will send them the formal information on elections in the third mail, but again, stating that they can terminate their participations at any time. After the whole research, I will also send a follow-up letter to explain the real purpose of this research. 

Secondly, I will make sure the study follows the principle of Beneficence. Specifically, I will invite experts or officers at local justice system to help me analyze the probability of adverse events (e.g., screen out participants who are sensible to political issues) and the severity of those events. 

Third, I will follow the principle of Justice, that is, to redesign the content of mailers (eg., replacing political afflications with personal characteristics) in avoid of aligning the nonpartisan candidates with well-known national politicians and shrink the sample size and send flyers randomly to participants in avoid of pre-experimental stratified random sampling. However, I may take their political afflications into consideration when analyzing data.  

Fourth, I will respect for laws, contracts, and terms of service. I will remove the Great Seal of Montana on the mailers and revise the “Information Guide”. At the same time, I will take responsibility of my actions and keep the whole research community doing things in public. At the end of the study, I will give some compensations to all participants, hopefully from some foundations or institutions. 

Finally, after consulting with experts on political research, I may move this research into a lab. I could use stratefied sampling to categorize subjects based on their political inclinations. By comparing one group provided additional information and the control group provided unrelated information, I think I could also get some significant results. In such case, I am able to get consent forms from subjects directly and answer their concerns and give them feedbacks. 

## References
Motl, J. (n.d.). Before the Commissioner of Political Practices of the State of Montana (United States, Political Practices of the State of Montana).
Richman, J. (2015). Stanford and Dartmouth researchers broke law with election mailer, Montana official says. The New York Times.
Salganik, Matthew J. (2017) Bit by Bit: Social Research in the Digital Age. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
